<!-- CGNS Steering Committee Minutes -->

<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css">
<link href="minutes.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<title> CGNS Steering Committee Minutes </title>
</head>

<body text="#000000" bgcolor="#FFFFFF" link="#0000EE" vlink="#551A8B" alink="#FF0000">

<a href="#endnav"><img src="../blank.gif" border=0 alt="Skip navigation links"></a>
<small>
<center>
(<a href="../index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Documentation&nbsp;Home&nbsp;Page</b></a>)
(<a href="../charter/index.html"><b>Steering&nbsp;Committee&nbsp;Charter</b></a>)
(<a href="../overview/index.html"><b>Overview&nbsp;and&nbsp;Entry-Level&nbsp;Document</b></a>)
(<a href="../user/index.html"><b>A&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide&nbsp;to&nbsp;CGNS</b></a>)
(<a href="../sids/index.html"><b>Standard&nbsp;Interface&nbsp;Data&nbsp;Structures</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-ADF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap_hdf/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-HDF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../midlevel/index.html"><b>Mid-Level&nbsp;Library</b></a>)
(<a href="../adf/index.html"><b>ADF&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide</b></a>)
(<a href="../cgnstools/index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Tools&nbsp;and&nbsp;Utilities</b></a>)
</center>
</small>
<a name="endnav"></a>

<h1>CGNS Steering Committee</h1>

<h2>Meeting Minutes</h2>

21 June 2000<br>
7:30pm<br>
Denver, Colorado

<p>
The meeting was called to order at 7:30pm.
There were 12 attendees, <a href="#attendees">listed below</a>.
In additon, Armen Darian, Ray Cosner, Michel Delanaye and John Chawner
indicated that they would not be able to attend the meeting and sent
information to the Chair or an alternate.

<p>
The minutes of the 11 May 2000 telecon were approved as posted on
the Web.

<ul>
<li> Bob Bush reviewed the AIAA CFD Committee on Standards that
     occurred on the previous evening. The bulk of the meeting was
     spent discussing how to collect a database of CFD validation data,
     and the requirements for such data. People with an interest or
     potentially data to contribute should contact Ray Cosner.
<br><br>
<li> There was a brief discussion about the process for adding new
     'official' members to the Steering Committee. It was agreed that
     the Chairperson would solicit and collect nominations, and review
     current member activity over the year in the fall. This information
     will be used to develop a slate of proposed changes to the Steering
     Committee that will be distributed via e-mail for review and
     comment. Based on this feedback a slate will be developed for
     discussion, potential modification and approval at the January
     meeting at Reno.
<br><br>
<li> <b>ISO Status</b> - Doug McCarthy gave a brief review of the
     effort to develop an ISO Standard for aerodynamic data based on
     CGNS. Draft documents will be reviewed by members of the CGNS
     Steering Committee in Seattle on 6-7 July, and are scheduled to
     be put out for public review and comment in August. We will send
     notice of where the proposed standards are posted to the extended
     CGNS Steering Committee mailing list so interested parties may
     review the proposals.
<br><br>
<li> <b>Documentation</b> - Bob Bush introduced Charlie Town (who could
     not be present) who has agreed to serve as the Documentation
     Focal Point. Charlie has created a new draft of the SIDS with all
     extensions included. Bob Bush, Diane Poirier and Chris Rumsey are
     reviewing the draft. The new version should be released some time
     in July. There was also a request for Charlie to put together a
     summary of the SIDS changes, for quick reference for implementers.
     
     <p>
     Chris Rumsey has agreed to draft a User's Guide Tutorial for
     CGNS. This will be drafted and circulated for review, hopefully to
     be finished by the end of the year.

     <p>
     Steve Legensky volunteered to take the lead on developing
     an implementation paper, potentially for next summer's
     conferences. The paper would summarize CGNS implementations in
     various vendor/supplier codes, and demonstrate communication of
     data across organizations.

     <p>
     In reviewing the SIDS, we noticed a nomenclature discrepancy
     in the definition of '<i>mut</i>' and '<i>nut</i>'. We propose
     changing the definition of '<tt>ViscosityEddy</tt>' to <i>mut</i>,
     and adding <tt>ViscosityEddyKinematic</tt> as the name for
     <i>nut</i>. We have not found anyone who objects to changing the
     standard in this way, so the SIDS will be changed. Hopefully this
     will not cause compatibility issues for anyone.
<br><br>
<li> <b>User Support</b> - A plea for a volunteer to become the Support
     Focal Point was made. The Support Focal Point would be the first
     contact for users, answering questions and/or distributing them to
     others for follow-up. Anyone interested in serving in such a role
     please contact Bob Bush.
     
     <p>
     There was some discussion of developing web based user support,
     groups and forums (potentially similar to 'Kiva talk' for
     example). Don Roberts agreed to look into how Tecplot handles the
     support role. The maintenance of such support could also be the
     function of the Support Focal Point, should we be able to find one!
<br><br>
<li> <b>Extensions</b> - Diane Poirier gave an overview of the API and
     SIDS extensions released this year.
     
     <p>
     Alpesh Patel provided a draft extension for hierarchical data
     structures. After some discussion, Alpesh agreed to take the lead
     on circulating the proposal for comment and revision. Interested
     parties include: Jamil Appa, Bob Bush, Diane Poirier, Steve
     Karman. We should also ask Fluent if they would like to comment
     (Dave Schowalter is a good first contact).
     
     <p>
     Steve Legensky proposed a way to support hanging nodes. There
     was much discussion on the need, and differentiating it from the
     hierarchical data structures. This may generalize to how to handle
     non-linear elements in CGNS. Steve agreed to have Intelligent
     Light look into it further and draft a more formal proposal in the
     future.
<br><br>
<li> <b>Schedule</b> - A draft schedule was posted and discussed. The
     <a href="#schedule">amended schedule</a> is shown below. Note that
     the persons responsible for developing and circulating extensions
     are listed. The development of the extension should proceed to the
     point where it can be provided to the Documentation Focal Point for
     inclusion in the documentation, and the Software Focal Point for
     implementation in the API.
</ul>

<p>
The meeting was adjourned at 9:30pm.

<a name="attendees"></a>
<h2>Attendees</h2>

<table cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0>
<tr valign=baseline><td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Doug McCarthy<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Boeing
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Mori Mani<td>
   <td>Boeing
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Don Roberts<td>
   <td>Amtec Engineering
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Jamil Appa<td>
   <td>BAE Systems
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Connor<td>
   <td>Adapco
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Rumsey<td>
   <td>NASA LaRC
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Alpesh Patel<td>
   <td>NUMECA Intl
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Steve Karman<td>
   <td>Lockheed Martin
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Erick Gantt<td>
   <td>Pointwise Inc.
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Steve Legensky<td>
   <td>Intelligent Light
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Diane Poirier<td>
   <td>ICEM CFD
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Bob Bush<td>
   <td>UTRC
</table>

<a name="schedule"></a>
<h2>Schedules</h2>

<center>
<img src="figures/jun00_schedule.gif"
     alt="Amended CGNS schedule"
     longdesc="figures/jun00_schedule.html">
</center>

<p>
<hr size=4 width=75%>
<div class=footer>
<!--#include virtual="../include/footer_small.html" -->
Last updated 4 Feb 2002

</body>
</html>
