<!-- CGNS Steering Committee Minutes -->

<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css">
<link href="minutes.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<title> CGNS Steering Committee Minutes </title>
</head>

<body text="#000000" bgcolor="#FFFFFF" link="#0000EE" vlink="#551A8B" alink="#FF0000">

<a href="#endnav"><img src="../blank.gif" border=0 alt="Skip navigation links"></a>
<small>
<center>
(<a href="../index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Documentation&nbsp;Home&nbsp;Page</b></a>)
(<a href="../charter/index.html"><b>Steering&nbsp;Committee&nbsp;Charter</b></a>)
(<a href="../overview/index.html"><b>Overview&nbsp;and&nbsp;Entry-Level&nbsp;Document</b></a>)
(<a href="../user/index.html"><b>A&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide&nbsp;to&nbsp;CGNS</b></a>)
(<a href="../sids/index.html"><b>Standard&nbsp;Interface&nbsp;Data&nbsp;Structures</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-ADF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap_hdf/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-HDF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../midlevel/index.html"><b>Mid-Level&nbsp;Library</b></a>)
(<a href="../adf/index.html"><b>ADF&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide</b></a>)
(<a href="../cgnstools/index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Tools&nbsp;and&nbsp;Utilities</b></a>)
</center>
</small>
<a name="endnav"></a>

<h1>CGNS Steering Committee</h1>

<h2>Telecon Minutes</h2>

4 October 2006<br>
11:00 AM Eastern Time

<p>
<ol>
<li> The meeting was called to order at 11:05 AM.  There were
     <a href="#attendees">11 attendees</a>, listed below.
<p>
<li> The minutes of the <a href="telecon_aug06.html">2 August 2006
     meeting</a> were approved as posted on the web site.
<p>
<li> Steering Committee Membership changes and updates
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Scott Imaly from Tecplot introduced himself, and expressed
          an interest in joining the Steering Committee.  Tecplot has
          supported CGNS for quite some time.  The committee approved
          the Tecplot membership.
     <li> <u>Towne will update the <a href="../charter/index.html">Steering
          Committee Charter</a> to add Tecplot, and Rumsey will update
          the website.</u>
     <li> Specific member changes: Earl Duque now POC for IL, Ankur
          Agarwal now POC for Fluent, Edwin van der Weide now POC for
          Stanford
     <li> Committee chair position
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Rumsey's 2-year term is ending in Jan 2007
          <li> Thomas Hauser, current vice-chair, would like to extend
               the term for one more year, and delay being voted into
               this position until Jan 2008
          <li> Committee members saw no problem with this; it will be
               voted on at January Reno meeting
          </ol>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Status of previous action items:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Towne will update the <a href="../charter/index.html">Steering
          Committee Charter</a> to raise the limit of members to 30, and
          to add Thaerocomp.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.
          </ol>
     <li> Alonso will forward to Rumsey some preliminary ideas on levels
          of compliance for vendors, related to problems he has
          encountered.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Alonso no longer able to participate.  Action item
               cancelled.
          </ol>
     <li> Towne will e-mail AIAA again to check on the status of the
          Recommended Practice.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.  Michele Ringrose said AIAA still needs to take
               some "process steps" to complete this. <u>Towne will e-mail
               AIAA the latest version of the SIDS, to insure it is
               up-to-date.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser will send parallel version of CGNS with HDF-5 to
          Alonso, van der Weide, Poinot, and Wedan to try out.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Parallel version not quite finished ... still needs to
               resolve one issue with HDF-5 developers.  <u>Action item
               carries.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan and Rumsey will initiate a new proposal for extension,
          perhaps based on Sayre's existing proposal but also including
          structured grids, to try to deal with the need for writing
          data to smaller and/or possibly lower-order regions.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Proposal developed and sent to CGNSTalk. It is based
               on current <a href="../sids/bc.html#BC"><tt>BC_t</tt></a>
               node structure, which apparently can handle a lot of what
               users want for functionality when writing "regions",
               including arbitrary dimensionality. <u>Rumsey will post new
               proposal for Regions on website and ask for comments.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan will look at Poinot's string definition header file and
          determine the best course of action.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet. May add this to distribution, but would not
               be linked by default.  <u>Wedan will contact Poinot and look
               into adding string definitions header file as part of the
               official CGNS distribution.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan will look into the partial write problem (found by
          Allmaras).
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.  Problem fixed (see <a href="#software">Software
               section</a>).
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey and Hauser will follow up with AIAA about the
          possibility of developing an AIAA short course.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Ball is now in our court.  AIAA wants outline developed
               for course before they decide how to market it.  Alabi
               volunteered to help Hauser prepare the outline /
               course. <u>Rumsey will send Alabi information about what
               AIAA needs to get the ball rolling on a possible AIAA
               short course for CGNS. Hauser and Alabi will pursue this
               effort.</u> Wedan, Rumsey, and Poinot are also interested in
               possibly helping.
          </ol>
     <li> Hann will look at the documentation and recommend changes to
          make it more explicit on the fact that the number of cells
          in <tt>Zone_t</tt> should be the number of highest order
          elements.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done, doc changes implemented early September.
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan will make the fix recommended by Montreuil in cgnstools
          for IRIX64.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet.  <u>Action item carries.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Poinot will test the HDF5 external link capability.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> In process.  He has built HDF-5 version with links
               extension, but is not sure how to apply them to his
               problem yet.  Action item carries.
          </ol>
     <li> Allmaras will head up a task force to resolve the issue of the
          face-based storage method.  Members are: Allmaras, Fisher,
          Poinot, Hann, Weber, Feldman, Rumsey, Wedan, Imaly).  They
          will hold a mini-telecon in early-September.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done. Telecon held (see <a href="#minutes">minutes</a>).
               <u>Allmaras will send revised proposal to Rumsey for posting
               on website.</u>
          </ol>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Open items (see <a href="#item14">number 14 below</a>):
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Brief discussion:
          <ol type=i>
          <li> <a href="#HDF5_todo">HDF-5 "to-do" list</a> maybe not a
               high priority now, because we decided to actively and
               indefinitely support both ADF and HDF-5 (with HDF-5 the
               "officially recommended" method).  But it is probably
               important to continue to keep the items on the list in
               the back of our minds.
          <li> ISO/STEP effort is pretty much independent from us now,
               but we still need to remember to try to keep up with it.
          <li> Issue of need for certification process often comes up
               at meetings, so we need to keep this in the back of our
               minds also.  A checker currently comes bundled in with
               the tools, and can be used stand-alone or in conjunction
               with <a href="../cgnstools/adfviewer/index.html">adfviewer</a>.
          <li> Need to add missing <tt>PYRA</tt> element, but this will
               lose backward compatibility, so we have to wait until
               version 3.0 before putting it in. General feeling at this
               time was that we should hold off on 3.0: perhaps want to
               first add capability for accessing HDF-5 or ADF at run
               time rather than at compile time.
          <li> It would be "nice" at some point to update the
               <a href="../user/index.html">User's Guide</a>, especially
               with more unstructured examples.
          </ol>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> ISO/STEP
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Nothing new to report.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Documentation
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Documentation has been updated: 
          (1) <a href="../charter/organization.html#representation">changes
          to charter</a> as mentioned above, (2) changes to
          <a href="../midlevel/structural.html#zone">MLL</a> and
          <a href="../sids/cgnsbase.html#Zone">SIDS</a> regarding # of
          cells in <tt>Zone_t</tt> being the number of "highest order"
          elements, (3) changes to charter to add
          <a href="../charter/organization.html#representation">steering
          committee member responsibilities</a>, (4) changes for
          <a href="../sids/cnct.html#GridConnectivity"><tt>FaceCenter</tt>
          connectivity</a> (recently-adopted proposal).
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="software"></a>
<li> Software
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Wedan has made many changes, including:  
          <ol type=i>
          <li> In particular, he fixed the partial read/write problem.
               Now in write or modify mode, MLL never deletes the node
               ... you must specifically delete it, or overwrite the
               node entirely. As a result of all the fixes, there are
               some new MLL routines, and some are no longer needed.
          <li> Also added a capability to search for links
          <li> Also modified <tt>cg_goto</tt> function to add more
               capabilities (such as searching by name)
          </ol>
     <li> <u>Wedan will cut a new point release (2.5) soon, to include all
          of the new capabilities.</u>
     <li> <u>Wedan will write MLL documentation on all the recent changes
          related to 2.5 and send to Towne for posting.</u> (No changes are
          required in the SIDS.)
     </ol>
<p>
<li> HDF-5
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Nothing new to report.
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="extensions"></a>
<li> Extensions
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> As a result of voting as well as discussions during
          <a href="telecon_aug06.html">2 August 2006 Telecon</a>, four
          proposals were "processed":
          <ol type=i>
          <li> multiple zone connectivities for time dependent accepted,
               awaiting implementation
          <li> averaging interfaces &amp; grid connectivity put on hold
               (conflicts with the way others already handle this -
               better to do as <tt>UserDefined</tt> for now until
               agreement can be reached)
          <li> face center connectivity accepted, implemented (Doc only)
          <li> FSI with deformable boundaries put on hold (apparently
               can be handled using current capabilities)
          </ol>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Other issues:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Wedan noted that anyone interested in contributing as a
          developer to CGNS can be given developer access to the
          <a href="http://sourceforge.net/projects/cgns">SourceForge
          repository</a> <img src="../external.png" alt="external link">.
          Please contact Wedan or Rumsey if you are interested!
     <li> Hauser to attend NOAA oceanographic workshop in Boulder
          Colorado in mid-October and discuss CGNS.
     <li> Next Steering Committee telecon will be held either in late
          November, or else we will wait until we hold the Reno meeting
          in early January (Wed PM). Decision will be made in early
          November.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Meeting was adjourned at 12:05 PM.
<p>
<li> Summary of <b><u>action items</u></b>:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Towne will update the Steering Committee Charter to add
          Tecplot, and Rumsey will update the website.
     <li> Towne will e-mail AIAA the latest version of the SIDS, to
          insure it is up-to-date.
     <li> Hauser will send parallel version of CGNS with HDF-5 to van
          der Weide, Poinot, and Wedan to try out.
     <li> Rumsey will post new proposal for Regions on website and ask
          for comments.
     <li> Wedan will contact Poinot and look into adding string
          definitions header file as part of the official CGNS
          distribution.
     <li> Rumsey will send Alabi information about what AIAA needs to
          get the ball rolling on a possible AIAA short course for CGNS.
     <li> Hauser and Alabi will pursue AIAA short course effort, with
          possible help from Wedan, Rumsey, and Poinot.
     <li> Wedan will make the fix recommended by Montreuil in cgnstools
          for IRIX64.
     <li> Poinot will test the HDF5 external link capability.
     <li> Allmaras will send revised proposal to Rumsey for posting on
          website.
     <li> Wedan will cut a new point release (2.5) soon, to include all
          of the new capabilities.
     <li> Wedan will write MLL documentation on all the recent changes
          related to 2.5 and send to Towne for posting.
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="item14"></a>
<li> Summary of <b><u>open items</u></b> from prior meetings (these are
     different from action items, in that they are open or unresolved
     issues that we want to keep track of, but there are no specific
     actions required of anyone at this point in time):
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Keep track of/resolve <a href="#HDF5_todo">HDF-5 "to-do" list</a>.
     <li> Keep track of progress with ISO/STEP.
     <li> Need for official certification process (test for compliance)
     <li> Need to add Karman's additional <tt>PYRA</tt> element type to
          allowed list (in software and in SIDS)
     <li> Need to upgrade/update <a href="../user/index.html">User's
          Guide</a> as appropriate (such as additional specific examples)
     </ol>
</ol>

<a name="attendees"></a>
<h2>Attendees</h2>

<table cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0>
<tr valign=baseline><td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Ken Alabi<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Thaerocomp
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Steven Allmaras<td>
   <td>Boeing Commercial
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Bob Bush<td>
   <td>Pratt &amp; Whitney
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Armen Darian<td>
   <td>Pratt &amp; Whitney
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Dan Einstein<td>
   <td>Pacific NW National Laboratory
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Scott Imlay<td>
   <td>Tecplot
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Rumsey<td>
   <td>NASA Langley
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Renaud Sauvage<td>
   <td>Airbus
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Charlie Towne<td>
   <td>NASA Glenn
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Bruce Wedan<td>
   <td>ANSYS/ICEM CFD
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Edwin van der Weide<td>
   <td>Stanford University
</table>

<a name="HDF5_todo"></a>
<h2>Tentative to-do list in association with HDF-5 switchover</h2>

<ul>
<li> Complete and test parallel implementation
<li> Complete and test API capability to automatically detect and switch
     between ADF and HDF-5 (transparent to user?)
<li> Assess/minimize impact on software vendors using CGNS
<li> Make changes recommended by HDF-5 to improve usability with HDF-5
     (e.g., character strings as opposed to character arrays)
<li> Assess compression capability of HDF-5
<li> CGNS configure scripts will need to be modified to check for
     availability of appropriate HDF-5 libraries.
<li> Possibly add flag-based options when opening CGNS files.  For
     example: "follow links" vs. "don't follow links"; "use ADF" vs. "use
     HDF-5"; "translate file automatically" vs. "leave the file as-is";
     "compress" vs. "don't compress".
<li> Look into eliminating need for ID's from MLL
<li> Resolve "link-of-links" problem: will require HDF-5 fix by NCSA
     (beta implementation of "external links" is in the works -
     likely complete in early 2006?)
</ul>

<a name="minutes"></a>
<h2>Minutes of Mini-telecon concerning Face-based storage proposal</h2>

Wed, Sept 6, 2006<br>
11AM eastern

<br><br>
Attendees:<br>
Allmaras, Feldman, Fisher, Hann, Imlay, Rumsey, Weber, Wedan

<p>
Discussion centered around whether or not to allow (encourage / make
official) face-based connectivity method in CGNS files.  (Currently,
connectivity is officially done via element-based, also known as
cell-based or volume-based.)  It turns out that the mechanisms for
allowing face-based are largely already in place. Allmaras presented
pros and cons for allowing the new approach.

<p>
The consensus was to allow face-based as an option.  A given zone will
be allowed to use either element-based OR face-based, but not both. A
new flag will be defined at the <tt>Zone_t</tt> level to indicate what
storage method is being used.  If this new flag is not present, then the
default is element-based.  The data in the <tt>Zone_t</tt> node will
still contain vertex size and cell size etc, as usual.

<p>
The current method for lumping the interior and boundary elements
together will remain (there was some discussion for use of a new
<tt>BoundaryElements_t</tt> label, but it was felt that there is already
a lot of investment in the current method, and adding a new label would
mostly complicate things at this point).

<p>
There was also a discussion about a possible need to allow
<tt>FlowSolution</tt>s etc to be stored at face-centers and edges.
Currently, for unstructured zones, such storage is only allowed at
<tt>Vertex</tt> or <tt>CellCenter</tt>.  This appears to be do-able, but
is independent of the face-based connectivity proposal, and therefore
will be treated as a separate proposal in the future.

<p>
Thus, for the current proposal, there will be not only some
documentation changes, but also some (minor) coding changes required to
implement this proposal, in order to accomodate the new flag.  It was
also mentioned that one of the CGNS "checkers" may need to be modified,
because cell size in <tt>Zone_t</tt> will no longer match up with number
of elements when they are face-based.

<br><br>
ACTIONS from mini-telecon:<br>
Allmaras will revise his proposed changes to the SIDS and will send to
the group.  Rumsey will subsequently post this to the website under
"Proposals for Extension".

<p>
<hr size=4 width=75%>
<div class=footer>
<!--#include virtual="../include/footer_small.html" -->
Last updated 11 Oct 2006

</body>
</html>
