<!-- CGNS Steering Committee Minutes -->

<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css">
<link href="minutes.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<title> CGNS Steering Committee Minutes </title>
</head>

<body text="#000000" bgcolor="#FFFFFF" link="#0000EE" vlink="#551A8B" alink="#FF0000">

<a href="#endnav"><img src="../blank.gif" border=0 alt="Skip navigation links"></a>
<small>
<center>
(<a href="../index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Documentation&nbsp;Home&nbsp;Page</b></a>)
(<a href="../charter/index.html"><b>Steering&nbsp;Committee&nbsp;Charter</b></a>)
(<a href="../overview/index.html"><b>Overview&nbsp;and&nbsp;Entry-Level&nbsp;Document</b></a>)
(<a href="../user/index.html"><b>A&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide&nbsp;to&nbsp;CGNS</b></a>)
(<a href="../sids/index.html"><b>Standard&nbsp;Interface&nbsp;Data&nbsp;Structures</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-ADF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap_hdf/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-HDF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../midlevel/index.html"><b>Mid-Level&nbsp;Library</b></a>)
(<a href="../adf/index.html"><b>ADF&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide</b></a>)
(<a href="../cgnstools/index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Tools&nbsp;and&nbsp;Utilities</b></a>)
</center>
</small>
<a name="endnav"></a>

<h1>CGNS Steering Committee</h1>

<h2>Telecon Minutes</h2>

28 November 2007<br>
11:00 AM Eastern Time

<p>
<ol>
<li> The meeting was called to order at 11:05 AM.  There were
     <a href="#attendees">15 attendees</a>, listed below.
<p>
<li> The minutes of the <a href="telecon_sep07.html">12 September 2007
     meeting</a> were approved as posted on the web site.
<p>
<li> Steering Committee membership changes, updates, and issues
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Simon Pereira, who is taking over for Bruce Wedan as the
          committee representative for ANSYS / ICEM CFD, introduced
          himself. Simon is the Product Manager for ICEM CFD. The
          current member list is still at 23 organizations (current
          maximum is set at 30).
     <li> Thaerocomp (one of the committee member organizations) was
          renamed to TTC Technologies.
     <li> Current Vice Chair Thomas Hauser is scheduled to be voted in
          as Chair of the CGNS Committee at the Reno meeting in January
          2008.
     <li> We are looking for a CGNS Steering committee member willing
          to assume the role of Vice Chair (2-yr position) beginning
          January 2008. The Vice Chair's duty is to help the Chair in
          the running of the committee.  It is expected that the Vice
          Chair will take over as Chair when the Chair's term ends.
          Please e-mail nominations to Rumsey
          (<a href="mailto:c.l.rumsey@nasa.gov">c.l.rumsey@nasa.gov</a>)
          by Dec 15.  You may nominate yourself.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Status of previous action items
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Towne will update the Steering Committee Charter to add
          Concepts NREC, and Rumsey will update the website.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser and Wedan will put V3.0 with parallel HDF-5 capability
          as an alpha release on SourceForge when ready.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet. <u>Action carries.</u>
          </ol>
     <a name="action_HDF5"></a>
     <li> Poinot will continue to test and work with HDF5 external link
          capability.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done. Poinot sent in a <a href="#HDF5_links">report</a>.
          </ol>
     <li> Allmaras will send Rumsey revised face-based proposal for
          posting on website.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet. Feldman emphasized that this capability is
               still in demand by their customers. <u>Action carries,
               with addition that Allmaras will also send to Feldman
               and Pereira for evaluaton.</u> New method needs to be
               compared against original method given on the website
               under Proposals for Extension.
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey will coordinate bringing the Regions proposal to
          completion.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet. This item directly ties into item (d)
               above, particularly with regard to how to get edge-based
               data for unstructured grids. <u>Action carries.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey will develop a proposal to handle sprays of unconnected
          points.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet. <u>Action carries.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Hann and Hauser will evaluate the capability for writing
          HDF-5, ADF, or XML in proposed V3.0.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet. <u>Action carries.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Towne will add the
          <a href="../sids/cnct.html#GridConnectivity">Generalized
          Connectivity</a> change to the SIDS.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey will arrange a telecon for the AIAA short course
          instructors to start to work out details (likely Monday
          Sept 17).
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.  These mini-telecons are ongoing.
          </ol>
     <li> Towne will make V2.5 the official documentation.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan will add Hauser as a SourceForge developer.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan will look into Weinkauf
          (<a href="https://lists.nasa.gov/mailman/private/cgnstalk/2007/001133.html">9/12/07
          CGNSTalk</a>) issues regarding automatically closing linked
          files, problem with unsuccessful opening leaving data
          structures undefined, issues with <tt>MAXIMUM_FILES</tt>, and
          use of relative paths.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Status unknown. <u>Action carries.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser will maintain contact with users interested in parallel
          HDF-5 capability, and let them know when parallel V3.0alpha
          version is ready to be tested.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Status unknown. <u>Action carries.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser and Rumsey will contact people in Europe regarding
          possibility of holding a European CGNS User's Meeting sometime
          in the future.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> No resolution yet. <u>Action carries.</u>
          </ol>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Open items (see <a href="#open_items">number 15 below</a>)
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Purpose of open items is to not lose track of long-term issues
          that come up.
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="short_course"></a>
<li> CGNS short course for AIAA
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Scheduled for Jan 5-6, 2008 in Reno, NV (just prior to
          Aerospace Sciences Meeting).
     <li> Led by Thomas Hauser and Ken Alabi, with help from Marc
          Poinot, Bruce Wedan, and Chris Rumsey.
     <li> Planning for course is progressing, but we need to have some
          minimum number of attendees signed up by Dec 7, or AIAA will
          cancel the course.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> ISO/STEP
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Keith Hunten sent details on AP209E2
          (<a href="attachments/AP209Edition2OverviewRev1.1.html">HTML</a>,
          <a href="attachments/AP209Edition2OverviewRev1.1.pdf">PDF</a>).
          CGNS plays into a part of this.
          He is interested in feedback.
          Please email:
          <a href="mailto:keith.a.hunten@lmco.com">keith.a.hunten@lmco.com</a>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Documentation
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> References were added to the SIDS to document
          <a href="../sids/floweqn.html#TurbulenceModel">turbulence
          models</a> currently used.
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="software"></a>
<li> Software
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Issue of the API forcing a copy of the entire CGNS file
          temporarily (Bussoletti
          <a href="https://lists.nasa.gov/mailman/private/cgnstalk/2007/001142.html">9/25/07
          CGNSTalk</a>) was discussed. This can cause problems if the
          file is linked to other files, for example.  It can also be
          painful if the file is large and you are only making a very
          small change.  Also, may be unrelated, but it was noted that
          if you delete nodes in
          <a href="../cgnstools/adfviewer/index.html">ADFViewer</a>, the
          resulting file size still stays the same. The question came up
          whether all this was an ADF issue or a MLL issue.  I.e., does
          use of HDF5 eliminate the problem? If a MLL issue, is this
          something that should be worked to correct, or is there a good
          reason for doing it this way?
     <li> Issue from Guzik
          (<a href="https://lists.nasa.gov/mailman/private/cgnstalk/2007/001147.html">10/02/07
          CGNSTalk</a>) on the use of
          <a href="../midlevel/fileops.html#configure"><tt>cg_configure</tt></a>
          to avoid the copy. He also mentioned some specific developer
          issues with <tt>cg_configure</tt>.
     <li> Issue of wanting to write info one element at a time to save
          memory via
          <a href="../midlevel/grid.html#elements"><tt>cg_section_write_f</tt></a>,
          and issue of possible need for "long" instead of "int" (Miller
          <a href="https://lists.nasa.gov/mailman/private/cgnstalk/2007/001155.html">10/19/07
          CGNSTalk</a>).
     <li> <u>None of these issues was resolved: they will be carried over
          to the next meeting.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="HDF5"></a>
<li> HDF-5
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> See <a href="#action_HDF5">4(c)</a> and
          <a href="#HDF5_links">Marc Poinot's report on HDF5 with
          external links</a>. No additional discussion.
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="extensions"></a>
<li> Extensions
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Discussion held on whether current Extension process is
          working or not. Current process: proposal is made and posted
          to website, people comment, it is revised and voted on (and
          often revised and voted on again), then if approved it
          eventually gets implemented when a developer has time.  The
          process is very slow, but things do eventually seem to get
          done.  Given the CGNS committee circumstances (no money, all
          volunteer effort), it seems to be the best method.  Most felt
          that CGNS is stable enough and the volume of changes is low
          enough that the current method is still viable.  However,
          it would be far better if we could fund the maintenance and
          development effort.  Rumsey also mentioned it would be better
          if we could get our "truck number" higher (if one of our
          developers gets hit by a truck, do we have others who can
          still do the work?). Some brainstorm ideas were:
          <ol type=i>
          <li> To raise money for maintenance and development, charge
               committee members nominal annual dues.
          <li> Use proceeds from short course to help fund development
               work.
          <li> Issue "Call for developers" on SourceForge.
          <li> Use Bugzilla method to report and track problems, request
               changes, log issues and fixes, etc.
          </ol>
     <li> Status of recent proposals (Face-based and Regions): still in
          the revision phase.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Other issues
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Next face-to-face meeting Sunday Jan 6 at 7:30PM in Reno, NV
          at the AIAA meeting (note this is different from the usually
          held Wednesday PM time slot). Rumsey will try to get the room
          set up for teleconference capability.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Meeting was adjourned at 12:00 PM.
<p>
<li> Summary of <b><u>action items</u></b>:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Hauser and Wedan will put V3.0 with parallel HDF-5 capability
          as an alpha release on SourceForge when ready.
     <li> Allmaras will send Rumsey, Feldman, and Pereira revised
          face-based proposal for evaluation, comparison with original
          proposal, and posting on website.
     <li> Rumsey will coordinate bringing the Regions proposal to
          completion.
     <li> Rumsey will develop a proposal to handle sprays of unconnected
          points.
     <li> Hann and Hauser will evaluate the capability for writing
          HDF-5, ADF, or XML in proposed V3.0.
     <li> Wedan will look into Weinkauf
          (<a href="https://lists.nasa.gov/mailman/private/cgnstalk/2007/001133.html">9/12/07
          CGNSTalk</a>) issues regarding automatically closing linked
          files, problem with unsuccessful opening leaving data
          structures undefined, issues with <tt>MAXIMUM_FILES</tt>, and
          use of relative paths.
     <li> Hauser will maintain contact with users interested in parallel
          HDF-5 capability, and let them know when parallel V3.0alpha
          version is ready to be tested.
     <li> Hauser and Rumsey will contact people in Europe regarding
          possibility of holding a European CGNS User's Meeting sometime
          in the future.
     <li> Rumsey will carry several unresolved CGNSTalk issues over to
          the next meeting: Bussoletti
          (<a href="https://lists.nasa.gov/mailman/private/cgnstalk/2007/001142.html">9/25/07
          CGNSTalk</a>), Guzik
          (<a href="https://lists.nasa.gov/mailman/private/cgnstalk/2007/001147.html">10/02/07
          CGNSTalk</a>), Miller
          (<a href="https://lists.nasa.gov/mailman/private/cgnstalk/2007/001155.html">10/19/07
          CGNSTalk</a>).
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="open_items"></a>
<li> Summary of <b><u>open items</u></b> from prior meetings (these are
     different from action items, in that they are open or unresolved
     issues that we want to keep track of, but there are no specific
     actions required of anyone at this point in time):
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Keep track of/resolve <a href="#HDF5_todo">HDF-5 "to-do" list</a>.
     <li> Keep track of progress with ISO/STEP.
     <li> Need for official certification process (test for compliance)
     <li> Need to make Karman's changes to <tt>PYRA</tt> elements:
          change <tt>PYRA_14</tt> to <tt>PYRA_13</tt>, without the
          centroid, and add <tt>PYRA_14</tt> with the base mid-face
          defined (in software and in SIDS). Need to wait until V3.0 for
          this due to compatibility issues.
     <li> Need to upgrade/update <a href="../user/index.html">User's
          Guide</a> as appropriate (such as additional specific examples)
     <li> Need to resolve slow behavior and larger file sizes that can
          occur in CGNS files when there are many (thousands) of nodes.
     </ol>
</ol>

<a name="attendees"></a>
<h2>Attendees</h2>

<table cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0>
<tr valign=baseline><td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Steve Allmaras<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Boeing Commercial
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Mark Anderson<td>
   <td>Concepts NREC
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Patrick Baker<td>
   <td>Pointwise
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>John Bussoletti<td>
   <td>Boeing Commercial
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Steve Feldman<td>
   <td>CD-ADAPCO
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Ashish Gupta<td>
   <td>Airbus - India
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Richard Hann<td>
   <td>ANSYS / CFX
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Subarchan Kundu<td>
   <td>Airbus - India
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Simon Pereira<td>
   <td>ANSYS / ICEM CFD
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Greg Power<td>
   <td>USAF / AEDC
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Rumsey<td>
   <td>NASA Langley
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Renaud Sauvage<td>
   <td>AM-Airbus
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Charlie Towne<td>
   <td>NASA Glenn
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Kurt Weber<td>
   <td>Rolls Royce / Allison
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Edwin van der Weide<td>
   <td>Stanford
</table>

<a name="HDF5_links"></a>
<h2>Report on CGNS/HDF5 with external links from Marc Poinot (Onera)</h2>

<p>
The CGNS/ADFH has been changed and we can use now the HDF5 external
links feature. This allows some new capabilities such as the node
creation in a sub-tree through a link, more than one level of link
(I've tested up to 7)... The use of external links reduces *a lot* the
complexity of the code and thus would lead to a better maintenance of
ADF layer. All the Bruce's tests are ok (using cgnslib v2.5) and I also
passed my pyCGNS v3.1 test suite that intensively calls both ADF and MLL
APIs.

<p>
I think we can integrate this external link implementation as the new
CGNS/HDF5 implementation. Moreover, there is no other hanging issue that
could delay the official announce of a full CGNS/HDF5 library. I will
push for that, Quincey Koziol (NCSA) says they may release the HDF5 v1.8
(we actually use for external links) by the end of the year.

<p>
These are the points I see now:
<ol>
<li> Take sources and merge to Sourceforge
<li> Update <a href="../filemap_hdf/index.html">SIDS-to-HDF5 document</a>
<li> Find a volunteer team to test (including soft editors), shake
     the CGNS/HDF to increase the coverage of API and check 100%
     implementation.
<li> Prepare a set of examples that shows the benefits of HDF5 tools
     added to existing CGNS tools, encourage full-HDF5 based tools for
     CGNS
<li> Make an official announce
<li> Find an HDF5 conference and make some presentation on CGNS use
</ol>

<p>
I can take parts of [2], [4] and [6]. Maybe Bruce can handle [1] and
take a look at the code. All CGNS users can re-link the MLL and test
their applications to fulfill [3] (including ONERA). We could have
a test matrix saying if the user has tested his nown use of MLL on
read/write/modify, with/without links, pre/post ADF/HDF files with
<tt>adf2hdf</tt> ...

<p>
Then [5] has to be discussed next week or in Reno.

<p>
Now, I really want to thank Quincey Koziol (QAK) and the NCSA team, they
really gave me an efficient support during these past months. This is
not a matter of simple email replies but actually in terms of hours of
actual work. Thanks again.

<a name="HDF5_todo"></a>
<h2>Tentative to-do list in association with HDF-5 switchover</h2>

<ul>
<li> Complete and test parallel implementation
     <ul>
     <li> under development
     </ul>
<li> Complete and test API capability to automatically detect and switch
     between ADF and HDF-5 (transparent to user?)
     <ul>
     <li> under development
     </ul>
<li> Assess/minimize impact on software vendors using CGNS
     <ul>
     <li> under development (success with automatic detection transparent
          to user will minimize impact)
     </ul>
<li> Make changes recommended by HDF-5 to improve usability with HDF-5
     (e.g., character strings as opposed to character arrays)
<li> Assess compression capability of HDF-5
<li> CGNS configure scripts will need to be modified to check for
     availability of appropriate HDF-5 libraries.
<li> Possibly add flag-based options when opening CGNS files.  For
     example: "follow links" vs. "don't follow links"; "use ADF" vs. "use
     HDF-5"; "translate file automatically" vs. "leave the file as-is";
     "compress" vs. "don't compress".
<li> Look into eliminating need for ID's from MLL
<li> Resolve "link-of-links" problem: will require HDF-5 fix by NCSA
     <ul>
     <li> under development
     </ul>
</ul>

<p>
<hr size=4 width=75%>
<div class=footer>
<!--#include virtual="../include/footer_small.html" -->
Last updated 29 Nov 2007

</body>
</html>
