<!-- CGNS Steering Committee Minutes -->

<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css">
<link href="minutes.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<title> CGNS Steering Committee Minutes </title>
</head>

<body text="#000000" bgcolor="#FFFFFF" link="#0000EE" vlink="#551A8B" alink="#FF0000">

<a href="#endnav"><img src="../blank.gif" border=0 alt="Skip navigation links"></a>
<small>
<center>
(<a href="../index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Documentation&nbsp;Home&nbsp;Page</b></a>)
(<a href="../charter/index.html"><b>Steering&nbsp;Committee&nbsp;Charter</b></a>)
(<a href="../overview/index.html"><b>Overview&nbsp;and&nbsp;Entry-Level&nbsp;Document</b></a>)
(<a href="../user/index.html"><b>A&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide&nbsp;to&nbsp;CGNS</b></a>)
(<a href="../sids/index.html"><b>Standard&nbsp;Interface&nbsp;Data&nbsp;Structures</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-ADF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap_hdf/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-HDF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../midlevel/index.html"><b>Mid-Level&nbsp;Library</b></a>)
(<a href="../adf/index.html"><b>ADF&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide</b></a>)
(<a href="../cgnstools/index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Tools&nbsp;and&nbsp;Utilities</b></a>)
</center>
</small>
<a name="endnav"></a>

<h1>CGNS Steering Committee</h1>

<h2>Meeting Minutes</h2>

7 January 2009<br>
7:00 PM Eastern Time<br>
AIAA Aerospace Sciences Meeting, Orlando, FL

<p>
<ol>
<li> The face-to-face meeting was called to order at 7:05 PM eastern
     time, in Orlando FL at the AIAA ASM Conference.  There were
     <a href="#attendees">8 attendees</a>, listed below (including 3
     telephone call-ins).
<p>
<li> The minutes of the <a href="telecon_nov08.html">5 November 2008
     meeting</a> were approved as posted on the web site.
<p>
<li> Status of previous action items
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Hauser and Poinot will work together to resolve the issue of
          the HDF-5 indexing problem, both to make sure the fix in V3
          works for Poinot and to check consistency of files generated
          without MLL.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Poinot considered adding a new flag to file, to indicate
               what the ordering inside the file is, but others at
               the meeting felt that this gives too many options and
               complicates the reading.  The problem is that a bug
               was discovered in the software last year, so Poinot's
               group has many CGNS HDF-5 files with the incorrect index
               ordering (written before the bug was fixed). General
               consensus at the meeting was to enforce C-ordering in
               HDF-5 files. I.e., corrupted files will need to be fixed
               via some external utility; there should be no additional
               flag or node added in the file.
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan to incorporate compression capability into Version 3 MLL.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Hauser believes this was done (in CVS version), but it
               needs testing. <u>Hauser to test Version 3 compression
               capability prior to release.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser and Wedan to improve documentation and build
          instructions for V3.0, remove instructions regarding XML
          output from configure script, make HDF-5 part of V3.0's tar
          file distribution, and generally upgrade the build capability
          prior to release of V3.0. Tentative plans to release V3.0 in
          January 2009.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Significant progress made on this front by Hauser and
               his student. They plan to use cmake (similar to autoconf
               &amp; automake) - there were no objections to this from
               the other attendees.  They also added a patch to fix
               HDF-5 for large number of zones (it used to be slower
               than ADF, but now is typically a little bit faster).
               They are essentially on schedule for a release of V3.0
               within the next month. <u>Hauser &amp; Wedan to complete
               and release V3.0.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey to move Allmaras' proposal to "Awaiting implementation"
          column.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.
          </ol>
     <li> <u>Poinot to work with Power and others to bring Rigid Motion
          Improvement proposal to completion, including specific
          examples.</u>
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet.  Examples still needed. Power wants to be
               sure standard does not have too many options; i.e., make
               it as simple as possible.
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey to compile list of potential programmers who might help
          to implement some of the outstanding proposals.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Attempted. The only positive response came from
               Poinot. The 3 outstanding accepted proposals for
               extension are still awaiting MLL implementation, so this
               issue of developer support for the MLL still remains one
               of the CGNS Team's biggest bottlenecks.
          </ol>
     <li> <u>Hauser will add HDF-5 parallel code to SourceForge and will
          let users know when it is available.</u>
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet.
          </ol>
     <li> Paul, Bussoletti, and Allmaras to continue to look into finding
          manpower development (particularly for MLL implementation)
          resources at Boeing.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Still no progress on this front.  Does not appear likely,
               so action item deleted.
          </ol>
     <li> <u>Hauser to contact members of the HPC Consortium to explore
          possibility of CGNS contributing to their effort.</u>
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet.
          </ol>
     <li> <u>Duque and Hauser to continue to develop proposal for
          handling sprays of unconnected points.</u>
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet.
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser to send information on interface "fix" to improve
          performance of HDF-5 when there are many zones to Wedan,
          Poinot, and anyone else interested.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done, see item c above.
          </ol>
     <li> <u>Wedan to investigate issue of MLL deleting the entire node
          even though its new dimensions are the same.</u>
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet.
          </ol>
     <li> <u>Hauser will take control of cgns.org domain name and will
          consider possibility of moving website to Utah State site.</u>
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet.  There is some urgency on this now because
               the domain no longer works, but Hauser has been unable to
               get an invoice from ANSYS for the transfer. Periera and
               Rumsey will try to help follow up on this with Dave Davis
               at ANSYS
          </ol>
     <li> <u>Wedan to look into issue brought up by Miller (10/19/07) to
          write info one element at a time to save memory.</u>
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet.
          </ol>
     <li> <u>Wedan to implement patch sent to him by Bussoletti to fix
          excessive memory usage by MLL.</u>
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet.
          </ol>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Committee membership
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> At his request, Dan Einstein (Pacific Northwest Labs) asked
          to be replaced on the committee by Xiangmin (Jim) Jiao (Stony
          Brook University). Jim has created a Matlab/Octave interface
          for CGNS, which will soon be available for download.  He is
          interested to become an active contributor and push for CGNS's
          usage for Octave and MATLAB users and also for multiphysics
          codes. The committee approved the change in membership from
          Pacific Northwest Labs to Stony Brook University.
     <li> Hauser mentioned that Alonso (Stanford) may be interested
          in re-establishing a seat on the committee. <u>Hauser will
          contact Alonso to see if he is interested in rejoining the
          CGNS steering committee.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Open items (purpose of these is to not lose track of long-term
     issues that come up)
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Keep track of/resolve <a href="#HDF5_todo">HDF-5 "to-do" list</a>
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Many of these items are now completed for V3.0.
          </ol>
     <li> Keep track of progress with ISO/STEP.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> <u>Rumsey will ping Hunten to find out the current status
               of the ISO/STEP effort.</u>
               [This was done shortly after the meeting. Hunten
               responded immediately via email,
               (<a href="#Hunten_email">see below</a>), and included an
               updated version of an overview document of AP209E2
               (<a href="attachments/AP209Edition2OverviewRev1.2.html">HTML</a>,
               <a href="attachments/AP209Edition2OverviewRev1.2.pdf">PDF</a>).]
          </ol>
     <li> Need for official certification process (test for compliance).
          <ol type=i>
          <li> There was some discussion on this. <u>Power will provide
               some high-level routines for reading/writing CGNS that
               may be useful, for inclusion on the website.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Develop method to write info one element at a time to save
          memory via something like <tt>cg_section_partialwrite</tt>
          (Miller 10/19/07 CGNSTalk)
          <ol type=i>
          <li> No progress.
          </ol>
     <li> Address issue of possible need for "long" instead of "int" to
          avoid signed 2 Gig limit (Miller 10/19/07 CGNSTalk).
     <li> Problem with 64-bit <tt>cg_goto_f</tt> (Gibeling 08/29/08
          CGNSTalk)
          <ol type=i>
          <li> <u>Hauser will investigate both the "long" vs
               "int" issue as well as the problem with the 64-bit
               <tt>cg_goto_f</tt>, and report back.</u>
          </ol>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> There was also some discussion regarding decision by Drag
     Prediction Workshop (DPW) committee to move toward CGNS as the
     official format for their grids, particularly as part of their
     mesh quality evaluation.  There may be opportunities for CGNS
     discussions/talks at the AIAA San Antonio meeting in June or at
     next January's ASM in Orlando, as part of DPW meetings and/or as
     part of a workshop effort by Jack Benek. Hauser and Rumsey also
     mentioned that the CGNS tutorial session has a green light for the
     EUCASS meeting in France in July 2009.  Currently it is not known
     whether it will be a half-day or full-day event. <u>Rumsey will
     notify people via CGNSTalk about the upcoming CGNS activities at
     the EUCASS meeting in France.</u>
<p>
<li> Meeting was adjourned at 8:15 PM Eastern. Next Telecon date is TBD.
<p>
<li> Summary of <b><u>action items</u></b>:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Hauser to test Version 3 compression capability prior to
          release.
     <li> Hauser &amp; Wedan to complete and release V3.0.
     <li> Poinot to work with Power and others to bring Rigid Motion
          Improvement proposal to completion, including specific
          examples.
     <li> Hauser will add HDF-5 parallel code to SourceForge and will
          let users know when it is available.
     <li> Hauser to contact members of the HPC Consortium to explore
          possibility of CGNS contributing to their effort.
     <li> Duque and Hauser to continue to develop proposal for handling
          sprays of unconnected points.
     <li> Wedan to investigate issue of MLL deleting the entire node
          even though its new dimensions are the same.
     <li> Hauser will take control of cgns.org domain name and will
          consider possibility of moving website to Utah State site.
     <li> Wedan to look into issue brought up by Miller (10/19/07) to
          write info one element at a time to save memory.
     <li> Wedan to implement patch sent to him by Bussoletti to fix
          excessive memory usage by MLL.
     <li> Hauser will contact Alonso to see if he is interested in
          rejoining the CGNS steering committee.
     <li> Rumsey will ping Hunten to find out the current status of the
          ISO/STEP effort.
     <li> Power will provide some high-level routines for
          reading/writing CGNS that may be useful, for inclusion on the
          website.
     <li> Hauser will investigate both the "long" vs "int" issue as well
          as the problem with the 64-bit <tt>cg_goto_f</tt>, and report
          back.
     <li> Rumsey will notify people via CGNSTalk about the upcoming CGNS
          activities at the EUCASS meeting in France.
     </ol>
</ol>

<a name="attendees"></a>
<h2>Attendees</h2>

<table cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0>
<tr valign=baseline><td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Steve Allmaras<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Boeing Commercial
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Andrew Cary<td>
   <td>Boeing Integrated Defense Systems
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Thomas Hauser<td>
   <td>Utah State
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Steve Karman<td>
   <td>U. Tennessee Chattanooga
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Joe Morrison<td>
   <td>NASA Langley
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Simon Pereira<td>
   <td>ANSYS / ICEM CFD
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Greg Power<td>
   <td>USAF/AEDC
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Rumsey<td>
   <td>NASA Langley
</table>

<a name="HDF5_todo"></a>
<h2>Tentative to-do list in association with HDF-5 switchover</h2>

<ul>
<li> Complete and test parallel implementation
     <ul>
     <li> under development
     </ul>
<li> Complete and test API capability to automatically detect and switch
     between ADF and HDF-5 (transparent to user?)
     <ul>
     <li> <u>done in V3.0</u>
     </ul>
<li> Assess/minimize impact on software vendors using CGNS
     <ul>
     <li> under development (success with automatic detection transparent
          to user will minimize impact)
     </ul>
<li> Make changes recommended by HDF-5 to improve usability with HDF-5
     (e.g., character strings as opposed to character arrays)
     <ul>
     <li> <u>done</u>
     </ul>
<li> Assess compression capability of HDF-5
     <ul>
     <li> <u>done by Poinot - capability will be added to V3 MLL</u>
     </ul>
<li> CGNS configure scripts will need to be modified to check for
     availability of appropriate HDF-5 libraries.
     <ul>
     <li> <u>done in V3.0</u>
     </ul>
<li> Possibly add flag-based options when opening CGNS files.  For
     example: "follow links" vs. "don't follow links"; "use ADF" vs. "use
     HDF-5"; "translate file automatically" vs. "leave the file as-is";
     "compress" vs. "don't compress".
<li> Look into eliminating need for ID's from MLL
<li> Resolve "link-of-links" problem: will require HDF-5 fix by NCSA
     under development (1.8.0 beta)
     <ul>
     <li> <u>done in V3.0 in combination with HDF-5 V1.8</u>
     </ul>
<li> Are any changes needed in SIDS-to-HDF5 document?  Or is it
     up-to-date?
<li> Improve build capability of V3.0.
</ul>

<a name="Hunten_email"></a>
<h2>Email from Keith Hunten to Chris Rumsey on status of ISO/STEP effort</h2>

<tt>
<p>
Chris -

<p>
Well, for once I have some good, concrete news!  The three standards
documents that comprise the integration of CGNS with ISO/STEP have just
been approved for their next level of ballot (a Draft International
Standard).  These are Part 10303-52 Mesh Based Topology, Part 10303-53
Numerical Analysis, and Part 10303-110 Mesh-based computational fluid
dynamics.

<p>
I apologize for the lateness on these, but since Boeing pulled out their
resources this has been a spare time effort on many peoples part (many
thanks to David Leal and Ray Goult in the UK on Parts 52 and 110, and
Darla Nettles of PDES, Inc on Parts 53 and 209), and a low level of
effort here at LM Aero and the PDES, Inc consortium.

<p>
The second edition of AP209 (10303-209E2) is very near completion. It
has been renamed to "Multidisciplinary analysis and design" to reflect
the additional scope beyond traditional finite element analysis.  The
composite material shape and definition modules have been balloted and
completed with the AP203E2 project (though this does not affect you).
The modules that reflect the new analysis capabilities in the above
mentioned documents have been completed and are in their last stages of
editorial revision.  The overall AP209E2 document is also in that stage.
With luck we may have it ready to go out for review in a couple of
months.

<p>
Once the new AP209E2 document is completed I would like to propose some
kind of review process with your committee to ensure that we are up to
date.  There will be an ISO TC184/SC4 meeting in Vancouver May 18-22
where we could do a formal review and walk-through.

<p>
I have included an updated version of an overview document of AP209E2
[<a href="attachments/AP209Edition2OverviewRev1.2.html">HTML</a>,
<a href="attachments/AP209Edition2OverviewRev1.2.pdf">PDF</a>]
that may be useful for you and your committee members.

<p>
Regards,

<p>
Keith
</tt>

<p>
<hr size=4 width=75%>
<div class=footer>
<!--#include virtual="../include/footer_small.html" -->
Last updated 9 Jan 2009

</body>
</html>
