<!-- CGNS Steering Committee Minutes -->

<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css">
<link href="minutes.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<title> CGNS Steering Committee Minutes </title>
</head>

<body text="#000000" bgcolor="#FFFFFF" link="#0000EE" vlink="#551A8B" alink="#FF0000">

<a href="#endnav"><img src="../blank.gif" border=0 alt="Skip navigation links"></a>
<small>
<center>
(<a href="../index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Documentation&nbsp;Home&nbsp;Page</b></a>)
(<a href="../charter/index.html"><b>Steering&nbsp;Committee&nbsp;Charter</b></a>)
(<a href="../overview/index.html"><b>Overview&nbsp;and&nbsp;Entry-Level&nbsp;Document</b></a>)
(<a href="../user/index.html"><b>A&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide&nbsp;to&nbsp;CGNS</b></a>)
(<a href="../sids/index.html"><b>Standard&nbsp;Interface&nbsp;Data&nbsp;Structures</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-ADF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap_hdf/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-HDF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../midlevel/index.html"><b>Mid-Level&nbsp;Library</b></a>)
(<a href="../adf/index.html"><b>ADF&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide</b></a>)
(<a href="../cgnstools/index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Tools&nbsp;and&nbsp;Utilities</b></a>)
</center>
</small>
<a name="endnav"></a>

<h1>CGNS Steering Committee</h1>

<h2>Meeting Minutes</h2>

10 January 2007<br>
7:00 PM Pacific Time

<p>
<ol>
<li> The meeting was called to order at 7:00 PM.
     There were <a href="#attendees">11 attendees</a>, listed below.
<p>
<li> The minutes of the <a href="telecon_oct06.html">4 October 2006
     meeting</a> were approved as posted on the web site.
<p>
<li> Steering Committee membership changes and updates
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Current membership level: 22 members (3 new members within
          last year: Pacific Northwest National Labs, Thaerocomp, and
          Tecplot).
     <li> Committee chair position
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Rumsey's second 2-year term officially ends as of Jan 2007.
          <li> Thomas Hauser, current vice-chair, asked to extend the
               term for one more year, and delay being voted into this
               position until Jan 2008.
          <li> Committee members voted in favor of this proposal.
          </ol>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Status of previous action items
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Towne will update the <a href="../charter/index.html">Steering
          Committee Charter</a> to add Tecplot, and Rumsey will update
          the website.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.
          </ol>
     <li> Towne will e-mail AIAA the latest version of the SIDS, to
          insure it is up-to-date.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.  <u>Rumsey spoke with Craig Day and Michele Ringrose
               at Reno, and they asked him to e-mail them a reminder
               about the status of the SIDS as AIAA Recommended Practice.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser will send parallel version of CGNS with HDF-5 to van der
          Weide, Poinot, and Wedan to try out.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet.  Action carries (slightly modified). <u>Hauser
               needs to coordinate with Wedan before putting parallel
               version on SourceForge as beta release.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey will post new proposal for Regions on website and ask
          for comments.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan will contact Poinot and look into adding string
          definitions header file as part of the official CGNS
          distribution.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.  The header file has been added to CVS repository.
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey will send Alabi information about what AIAA needs to
          get the ball rolling on a possible AIAA short course for CGNS.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser and Alabi will pursue AIAA short course effort, with
          possible help from Wedan, Rumsey, and Poinot.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> In process.  New action item associated with this is
               given below.
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan will make the fix recommended by Montreuil in cgnstools
          for IRIX64.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.
          </ol>
     <li> Poinot will test the HDF5 external link capability.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> <u>Action item carries.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Allmaras will send revised face-based proposal to Rumsey for
          posting on website.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan will cut a new point release (2.5) soon, to include all
          of the new capabilities.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan will write MLL documentation on all the recent changes
          related to 2.5 and send to Towne for posting.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done (sent to Towne).  <u>Rumsey to get verification
               from Towne when the MLL documentation on all the recent
               changes related to 2.5 is posted.</u>
          </ol>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Open items (see <a href="#item15">number 15</a> below)
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> No discussion.
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="short_course"></a>
<li> Possible CGNS short course for AIAA
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> After our June 2006 tutorial, AIAA asked us if we were
          interested in expanding it to become an AIAA short course -
          this would align with AIAA's desire to promote standards.
     <li> Process is: 
          <ol type=i>
          <li> We fill out AIAA Course Profile Form, which includes
               outline of the course, instructor names, who the target
               audience is, etc.
          <li> AIAA needs to have everything settled and in order prior
               to June 2007, in order to start marketing for the January
               2008 meeting.
          <li> We develop the course in detail, including course notes.
          <li> About 1 month prior to course date, AIAA decides if it is
               a "go" or "no-go" (i.e., if there are enough attendees).
               Typically, if about 5 or more have signed up by 1 month
               in advance, it is a "go", because typically it fills up
               sufficiently after that.  The AIAA goal is to have at
               least a dozen or so students.
          <li> AIAA will make copies of all the course notes, put them
               in binders, and deliver them to the course site.
          <li> AIAA pays travel and an honorarium to the instructors;
               instructors can decide what to do with the money (some
               keep it, some fold it back in to the TC that sponsors the
               course).
          </ol>
     <li> Patricia Carr is the AIAA contact person.
     <li> The idea is that this would be part tutorial, part hands-on
          programming and learning to use CGNS.  AIAA would ask that
          students bring their own laptops. Network connections can be
          provided by AIAA.
     <li> Hauser and Alabi agreed to lead this effort. <u>Hauser and
          Alabi will finish completing the AIAA Course Profile Form by
          March 2007, and will start putting together the course in
          detail after that.</u> Rumsey, Wedan, and Poinot, said that
          they can possibly help serve as instructors. We are shooting
          to hold the first course at Reno in January 2008.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> ISO/STEP
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Hunten provided slides on status
          (<a href="attachments/jan07_ISOstatus.html">HTML</a>,
          <a href="attachments/jan07_ISOstatus.pdf">PDF</a>).
          There are still some remaining tasks to be completed before
          ISO ballot to be sent out.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Documentation
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Typo found and corrected in MLL for
          <a href="../midlevel/connectivity.html#general"><tt>conn_write_short</tt></a>.
     <li> Definition of <tt>PYRA_14</tt> has been discovered to be
          wrong and needs to be fixed in SIDS: the 14th node should be
          at the center of the bottom face, not in the center of the
          pyramid.  Committee members felt the change should be made
          (i.e., that it was unlikely to affect anyone). Also, Poirier
          sent an e-mail a month ago to CGNSTalk asking for anyone
          possibly affected by the change to e-mail the committee (no
          one has). <u>Rumsey will send Towne the change to
          <tt>PYRA_14</tt> for fixing in the SIDS.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Software
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Discussion about need for going to Version 3.0
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Committee overall felt there is no reason to upgrade to
               new versions on a regular schedule.  In other words,
               we should only be compelled to upgrade when necessary.
               For Version 3.0, this means we would do it when changes
               force us to lose forward compatibility, or when a large
               (significant) change is taking place that seems to
               warrant a major number change.
          <li> Right now one item still needed that would currently
               lose forward-compatibility is the addition of a
               <tt>PYRA_13</tt> element definition (first noted by
               Karman).  However, Wedan has a proposal (see
               <a href="#item11">Extensions section</a> below) that may
               fix a lot of things, including this issue.
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan is working on adding a new layer between MLL and ADF.
          This will allow easily writing HDF-5, ADF, or XML, as desired, at
          run-time!
     <li> MLL will not permit writing a normal list without also
          writing normal index (<tt>cg_boco_normal_write</tt>), but
          <tt>NormalIndex</tt> is not an option for unstructured.
          Rumsey will send Wedan original e-mail about this
          issue (originally brought up by Guzik), and <u>Wedan
          will see if there is a change needed in the MLL call
          <tt>cg_boco_normal_write</tt></u>.
     <li> Fix for <i>adf2hdf.c</i> (originally brought up by Mason) has
          been made in 2.4-4.
     <li> Fix for cgnscheck related to History node (originally brought
          up by Macounba) has been made in the CVS repository.
     <li> Van der Weide noticed very slow I/O on some parallel file
          systems. <u>Wedan and van der Weide will communicate, and
          Wedan will look into the issue of very slow I/O on some
          parallel file systems.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> HDF-5
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Hauser reported on status of parallel version.  He needs to
          coordinate with Wedan before it can be posted to SourceForge.
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="item11"></a>
<li> Extensions
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Rumsey noted that very few committee members responded to
          e-mails asking for comments on the proposed extensions.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> The extension approval process currently does not work
               smoothly, because it is difficult to get committee
               consensus when only a handful of people look at new
               proposals.  The following is our current "process" as
               specified in the Charter:
               <ol>
               <li> Proposal is submitted by a Technical Team
               <li> Proposal is presented in an open and public forum
               <li> Open forum reviews the proposal
               <li> Steering committee has final authority for approval
                    by consensus or by 2/3 majority if necessary
               </ol>
          <li> Currently the "Technical Team" is usually an individual,
               and the "open forum" is through both CGNSTalk as well as
               the website "Proposals for Extension" page.
          <li> The biggest problem is step (3), when it is difficult to
               get more than a handful of people to really thoroughly
               look at the new proposals.
          <li> Suggestion made: assign extensions to a sub-committee for
               review (between steps 3 and 4), then have sub-committee
               report to full committee, at which point full committee
               can vote.
          </ol>
     <li> Face-based storage proposal (from Allmaras)
          <ol type=i>
          <li> A Technical Team made up of committee members previously
               worked with Allmaras to refine this proposal.
          <li> However, Wedan introduced a new formulation that may
               work either in place of, or in addition to, the current
               proposal.  The idea is to replace <tt>Type = MIXED,
               Element = NGON_n + nnodes, node1, node2, ...</tt> with
               <tt>Type = NGON_n, Element = nnodes, node1, node2,
               ...</tt> With this change, we will be free to add new
               element types.  And to handle face-based, we could have
               <tt>Type = NFACE_n, Element = nfaces, face1, face2,
               ...</tt> Thus, one could readily identify a face-based
               storage system by looking at the element set type.
          <li> Therefore, this proposal is on hold for now. <u>Allmaras
               will study Wedan's new formulation as it relates to
               face-based, and will make a recommendation.  It may
               be necessary to hold another sub-committee telecon to
               discuss it.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Regions proposal (from Rumsey)
          <ol type=i>
          <li> This proposal addresses need to be able to store data
               at subsets of the entire zone (such as skin friction)
               without "cheating" and using <tt>BC_t</tt>, and without
               having to put it in a separate <tt>CGNSBase_t</tt>.
          <li> Again, only a few people have reviewed it, so it is
               difficult to know how to reach consensus.
          <li> <u>Rumsey will try to form a sub-committee to perform
               a more thorough review of this extension before moving
               forward with it. This will also test to see how well
               the sub-committee idea works as part of the extension
               approval process.</u>
          </ol>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Other issues
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Rumsey presented a year-end summary
          (<a href="attachments/jan07_summary.html">HTML</a>,
          <a href="attachments/jan07_summary.pdf">PDF</a>) of what we
          accomplished and where we stand.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> We had a lot of significant accomplishments in 2006!  In
               particular, the Tutorial session and Panel discussion
               held at the AIAA meeting in San Francisco went extremely
               well.
          <li> There was only very limited discussion on some of the
               major points under "New/additional emphasis needed?" In
               other words, the following are still open issues:
               <ol>
               <li> Funding for software support?  (AIAA short course
                    may be able to provide some, but it is typically a
                    very small amount - like order $1000 per year)
               <li> How to improve proposal-for-extension process?
               <li> How do we go about developing an official
                    certification process?
               <li> Website improvements/upgrades needed?
               <li> How to overcome vendor and user inertia?
               </ol>
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan again noted that anyone interested in contributing <b>as
          a developer</b> to CGNS can be given developer access to the
          SourceForge repository.  Please contact Wedan or Rumsey if you
          are interested!
     <li> Hauser attended NOAA oceanographic workshop in Boulder
          Colorado in mid-October to discuss CGNS.  They are very tied
          to NET-CDF.  Wedan pointed out that when he finishes the new
          layer between MLL and ADF, it would be relatively easy to add
          the capability to write a CGNS file using NET-CDF if desired.
          Hauser plans to contact a group at BYU, who already have an
          API but there may be a way to bring CGNS and their method
          together.
     <li> Next Steering Committee telecon will be held sometime in March
          2007.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Meeting was adjourned at 9:30 PM.
<p>
<li> Summary of <u><b>action items</b></u>:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Rumsey to e-mail Craig Day and Michele Ringrose, to remind
          them to look into the status of the SIDS as AIAA Recommended
          Practice.
     <li> Hauser to coordinate with Wedan and put parallel HDF-5 version
          of CGNS on SourceForge as beta release.
     <li> Poinot will test the HDF5 external link capability.
     <li> Rumsey to get verification from Towne when the MLL
          documentation on all the recent changes related to 2.5 is
          posted.
     <li> Hauser and Alabi will finish completing the AIAA Course
          Profile Form by March 2007, and will start putting together
          the course in detail after that.
     <li> Rumsey will send Towne the change to <tt>PYRA_14</tt> for
          fixing in the SIDS.
     <li> Wedan will see if there is a change needed in the MLL call
          <tt>cg_boco_normal_write</tt> (from Guzik e-mail).
     <li> Wedan and van der Weide will communicate, and Wedan will look
          into the issue of very slow I/O on some parallel file systems.
     <li> Allmaras will study Wedan's new formulation as it relates to
          face-based storage, and will make a recommendation.  It may be
          necessary to hold another sub-committee telecon to discuss it.
     <li> Rumsey will try to form a sub-committee to perform a more
          thorough review of the Regions extension before moving forward
          with it. This will also test to see how well the sub-committee
          idea works as part of the extension approval process.
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="item15"></a>
<li> Summary of <u><b>open items</u></b> from prior meetings (these are
     different from action items, in that they are open or unresolved
     issues that we want to keep track of, but there are no specific
     actions required of anyone at this point in time):
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Keep track of / resolve <a href="#HDF5_todo">HDF-5 "to-do"
          list</a>.
     <li> Keep track of progress with ISO/STEP.
     <li> Need for official certification process (test for compliance)
     <li> Need to add Karman's additional <tt>PYRA</tt> element type to
          allowed list (in software and in SIDS)
     <li> Need to upgrade / update <a href="../user/index.html">User's
          Guide</a> as appropriate (such as additional specific
          examples)
     </ol>
</ol>

<a name="attendees"></a>
<h2>Attendees</h2>

<table cellspacing=0 cellpadding=0 border=0>
<tr valign=baseline><td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Ken Alabi<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Thaerocomp
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Steven Allmaras<td>
   <td>Boeing Commercial
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Thomas Hauser<td>
   <td>Utah State
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Scott Imlay<td>
   <td>Tecplot
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Nelson<td>
   <td>Innovative Technology Applications
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Greg Power<td>
   <td>AEDC
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Rumsey<td>
   <td>NASA Langley
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>David Vaughn<td>
   <td>CD-Adapco
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Kurt Weber<td>
   <td>Rolls-Royce
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Bruce Wedan<td>
   <td>ANSYS/ICEM CFD
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Edwin van der Weide<td>
   <td>Stanford University
</table>

<a name="HDF5_todo"></a>
<h2>Tentative to-do list in association with HDF-5 switchover</h2>

<ul>
<li> Complete and test parallel implementation
<li> Complete and test API capability to automatically detect and switch
     between ADF and HDF-5 (transparent to user?)
<li> Assess/minimize impact on software vendors using CGNS
<li> Make changes recommended by HDF-5 to improve usability with HDF-5
     (e.g., character strings as opposed to character arrays)
<li> Assess compression capability of HDF-5
<li> CGNS configure scripts will need to be modified to check for
     availability of appropriate HDF-5 libraries.
<li> Possibly add flag-based options when opening CGNS files.  For
     example: "follow links" vs. "don't follow links"; "use ADF" vs. "use
     HDF-5"; "translate file automatically" vs. "leave the file as-is";
     "compress" vs. "don't compress".
<li> Look into eliminating need for ID's from MLL
<li> Resolve "link-of-links" problem: will require HDF-5 fix by NCSA
     (beta implementation of "external links" is in the works - likely
     complete in early 2006?)
</ul>

<p>
<hr size=4 width=75%>
<div class=footer>
<!--#include virtual="../include/footer_small.html" -->
Last updated 17 Jan 2006

</body>
</html>
