<!-- CGNS Steering Committee Minutes -->

<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css">
<link href="minutes.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<title> CGNS Steering Committee Minutes </title>
</head>

<body text="#000000" bgcolor="#FFFFFF" link="#0000EE" vlink="#551A8B" alink="#FF0000">

<a href="#endnav"><img src="../blank.gif" border=0 alt="Skip navigation links"></a>
<small>
<center>
(<a href="../index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Documentation&nbsp;Home&nbsp;Page</b></a>)
(<a href="../charter/index.html"><b>Steering&nbsp;Committee&nbsp;Charter</b></a>)
(<a href="../overview/index.html"><b>Overview&nbsp;and&nbsp;Entry-Level&nbsp;Document</b></a>)
(<a href="../user/index.html"><b>A&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide&nbsp;to&nbsp;CGNS</b></a>)
(<a href="../sids/index.html"><b>Standard&nbsp;Interface&nbsp;Data&nbsp;Structures</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-ADF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap_hdf/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-HDF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../midlevel/index.html"><b>Mid-Level&nbsp;Library</b></a>)
(<a href="../adf/index.html"><b>ADF&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide</b></a>)
(<a href="../cgnstools/index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Tools&nbsp;and&nbsp;Utilities</b></a>)
</center>
</small>
<a name="endnav"></a>

<h1>CGNS Steering Committee</h1>

<h2>Telecon Minutes</h2>

13 March 2002<br>
2:00pm Eastern Time<br><br>

Telecon Number: (334) 262-0740, participant code: 491863

<p>
The meeting was called to order at 2:00pm.
The <a href="#attendees">attendees</a> are listed below.

<p>
The minutes of the last meeting, in Reno 15 January 2002 were approved
as posted on the Web.

<ul>
<li> <b>Charter Business</b> - Bob Bush introduced three people who have
        requested to attend Steering Committee meetings.  These were:
        <br><br>
	Prof. Habashi - McGill U.<br>
	Dr. Sebastin Peron - Newmerical<br>
	Dr. Francois Morency - McGill U.
        <br><br>
        They were unable to attend the telecon.  In addition, Ed Hall
        the RR-Allison voting member of the Steering Committee has moved
        to GE Corporate R&amp;D center.  We hope he will remain active on
        the CGNS committee.  Kurt Weber has replaced Ed as the voting
        member for RR-Allison.
<br><br>
<li> <b>ISO Status</b> - Ray Cosner provided a brief overview of the
        status of the ISO certification effort.  There was a 1 week
        meeting in February where all parts of the new standard were
        reviewed.  There were minor changes to Parts 52 and 53, it is
        felt that with these changes they are ready for the Committee
        Draft stage.  Part 110 - the CFD specific portions were reviewed
        and much of the contents moved to AP 237.  It was decided to
        eliminate part 110 and just include all its contents into AP
        237.  Completion of the ISO certification process for the fluid
        dynamics standard is now expected to occur in the fall of 2004.

        <p>
        Ray also noted that Peter Wilson (the guiding force behind
        formatting the standard for ISO acceptance) will be retiring at
        the end of 2003.

        <p>
        After some discussion it was decided to move a proposed CGNS
        committee review of the ISO drafts to the fall of 2002.  This
        is to accommodate attendance and hosting by the US lead ISO
        representative, having the drafts further, and more information
        about a potential combination of the fluids and finite element
        standards.
<br><br>
<li> <b>Documentation</b> - Charlie Towne gave an overview of the
        documentation status.  A beta version of the documentation,
        that is consistent with the beta version of the software, is
        available on the web.  He is working on updating the ADF manual
        with un-documented extensions by Mark Fisher, and re-writing
        the Overview document.  The AIAA standard document (SIDS
        re-formatted) is being worked by the AIAA.  We anticipate
        receiving the draft soon for voting and acceptance.

        <p>
        We had an invitation to participate in a panel session at
        the Grid Generation Conference in Hawaii in June 2002.  John
        Chawner indicated that he was planning to attend and offered to
        represent the committee on the panel.

        <p>
        Marc Poinot will be presenting a paper on pyCGNS at the
        Aerospace PDE conference in Amsterdam.  We offered to provide
        any CGNS material that might help him in his presentation.
<br><br>
<li> <b>Extensions</b> - The Links, User Defined Data and Chemistry
        extensions have been implemented and are available in the beta
        version (2.1 beta 2) on the web.

        <p>
        There were some issues checking in new code to CVS from
        a PC system.  These involved the different handling of
        &lt;<tt>CR</tt>&gt; between PC and Unix.  The CVS system flagged
        these as differences, resulting in 100% changes for code being
        checked in.  This defeats the purpose of the history tracking,
        so all routines were checked in through a Unix system. David
        Edwards and Diane Poirier will draft an update procedure to
        guide future efforts.

        <p>
        Diane sent out a message to all registered users.  Of 599 sent,
        118 were not found.  She is 'cleaning out' the registered user
        list.

        <p>
        Bob Bush briefly summarized recent activity for turbomachinery
        extensions including Rotating Coordinates, Periodic Boundary
        Conditions, and Interface Type.  Dave Schowalter expressed
        interest in these extensions.  He will look at the latest
        updates on the web, and Bob Bush will try to tie him into future
        discussions.

        <p>
        Marc Poinot briefly described his extensions of the ADF library
        to include the ability to maintain an in-memory representation
        of the tree.  This should facilitate MPI implementations.  The
        extensions were implemented as a small number of new calls that
        can be used in place of existing calls.  The new calls provide
        the ability to specify if the data is in memory or on disk.
        Shawn Fuller indicated that he has used the extensions, but
        that the level of parallelism is too coarse for his immediate
        needs.  Marc has provided the libraries and documentation on the
        web, and we have provided links to the site from the CGNS site.
        We will extend the ADF library to include these capabilities
        depending on usage and user experience.

        <p>
        There was brief discussion on extending the units to include a
        number unit (moles) and charge unit (electron).  Thus far, we do
        not have an immediate need to make these extensions, so we will
        wait.  In addition, the ISO standards should have a definition
        of various units.  Ray Cosner will track down how and what units
        are tracked by the ISO community.  This can be incorporated into
        CGNS, or we can wait until the ISO capabilities are available.
<br><br>
<li> <b>Related Software</b> - There is a link to the PyCGNS software
        from the CGNS web site, along with his presentation from Reno.

        <p>
        Manuel Kessler has loaded the C++ interface on the web via
        sourceforge.  We will add a link to the CGNS web site to this
        library and its documentation.  Manuel would be very interested
        in any feedback that anyone can provide.

        <p>
        Bruce Wedan introduced himself and briefly described his Tcl/Tk
        ADF viewer.  Chris Rumsey and Diane Poirier have used the viewer
        and like it's functionality.  The viewer is based strictly on
        ADF, but knows about some CGNS structures.  The viewer has been
        posted on the web under the Utilities page.  Bruce will look at
        packaging a self extracting NT version also.

        <p>
        Christian Lundh has also contributed a viewer via CGNSTalk.
        He was not available at the telecon, and no one present has
        experience with his viewer.

        <p>
        There was some discussion of if we could use this or a similar
        capability to make money to support committee activities
        (development, support, etc.).  Since we are a sub-committee of
        the AIAA, and they have many commercial products, perhaps there
        is an avenue to pursue.  It was also noted that we must respect
        the wishes of the developers who may have intended software to
        remain Open Source.  This will require further discussion, and a
        champion.
<br><br>
<li> <b>Next Meeting</b> - It was suggested that we convene a meeting at
        the summer fluids conference in St. Louis the week of 24 June.
        Chris Rumsey offered to help set up the meeting.  Bob Bush will
        see if he can attend the meeting.
</ul>

<p>
There being no additional issues, the meeting was adjourned.

<a name="attendees"></a>
<h2>Attendees</h2>

<table cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0>
<tr valign=baseline><td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Bob Bush
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Dave Schowalter
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Shawn Fuller
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Manuel Kessler
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Rumsey
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Diane Poirier
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Ray Cosner
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>John Chawner
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Francis Enomoto
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Bruce Wedan
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Charlie Towne
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>David Edwards
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Marc Poinot
</table>

<p>
<hr size=4 width=75%>
<div class=footer>
<!--#include virtual="../include/footer_small.html" -->
Last updated 14 Mar 2002

</body>
</html>
