<!-- CGNS Steering Committee Minutes -->

<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css">
<link href="minutes.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<title> CGNS Steering Committee Minutes </title>
</head>

<body text="#000000" bgcolor="#FFFFFF" link="#0000EE" vlink="#551A8B" alink="#FF0000">

<a href="#endnav"><img src="../blank.gif" border=0 alt="Skip navigation links"></a>
<small>
<center>
(<a href="../index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Documentation&nbsp;Home&nbsp;Page</b></a>)
(<a href="../charter/index.html"><b>Steering&nbsp;Committee&nbsp;Charter</b></a>)
(<a href="../overview/index.html"><b>Overview&nbsp;and&nbsp;Entry-Level&nbsp;Document</b></a>)
(<a href="../user/index.html"><b>A&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide&nbsp;to&nbsp;CGNS</b></a>)
(<a href="../sids/index.html"><b>Standard&nbsp;Interface&nbsp;Data&nbsp;Structures</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-ADF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap_hdf/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-HDF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../midlevel/index.html"><b>Mid-Level&nbsp;Library</b></a>)
(<a href="../adf/index.html"><b>ADF&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide</b></a>)
(<a href="../cgnstools/index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Tools&nbsp;and&nbsp;Utilities</b></a>)
</center>
</small>
<a name="endnav"></a>

<h1>CGNS Steering Committee</h1>

<h2>Telecon Minutes</h2>

20 November 2003<br>
11:00 AM Eastern Time<br><br>

<ol>
<li> The meeting was called to order at 11:05 AM.
     There were <a href="#attendees">17 attendees</a>, listed below.
<br><br>
<li> The minutes of the <a href="telecon_sep03.html">28 September 2003
     telecon meeting</a> were reviewed and approved as posted on the web
     site.
<br><br>
<li> Status of previous action items:<br><br>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Progress on release of ONERA/AEDC's HDF-5 implementation (Power):
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Updated implementation released by AEDC, but not
               available on web yet.
          <li> Replaces ADF; still need CGNS mid-level library.
          <li> Still has some known problems: problem closing when
               multiple opens; cannot do linking.
          <li> Poinot has tested it, and had some problems related to
               ADF children IDs, possibly related to change between V2.2
               and V2.3?  <u>Poinot will investigate further.</u>
          <li> Power, Poinot, and Wedan will attempt to coordinate their
               work on HDF-5, to avoid duplication of effort.
          <li> <u>Wedan will add HDF-5 implementation package to
               SourceForge for all to access.</u>
          </ul>
     <li> Summary/status of Wedan's fix to speed up CGNS (Wedan):
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Installed in beta software (V2.3), and results in as much
               as factor of 10 speed-up. Several groups reported that it
               is working great!
          <li> Additional change (user-specified record length) may give
               additional speed-up, but existing record length believed
               to be "optimal" in some sense.  If change record length,
               lose backward-compatability, but this point becomes moot
               if and when we switch over to HDF-5.
          <li> <u>Alonso and Van derWeide will experiment with various
               record lengths to see what types of speed-up can be
               achieved.</u>
          </ul>
     <li> Are links a fundamental problem for HDF-5? (Power, Poinot):
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> No fundamental problem; it should be workable.
          <li> Alonso identified a big slow-down when accessing a file
               with links, but this was with V2.2.  <u>Alonso will test
               this with V2.3 and report back.</u>
          </ul>
     <li> Status of pending proposals for extension (Bush):
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Bush didn't see any particular problems, but some
               proposals may need increased definition.
          <li> <u>Bush and Rumsey will re-examine them, for discussion at
               Steering Committee meeting in Reno.</u>
          </ul>
     <li> Can a "home page" be added at SourceForge? (Wedan):
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Yes, but hasn't yet been done yet.  <u>Action item carries.</u>
          </ul>
     <li> Proposal for reinstating removed element list and range (Wedan):
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Not done yet. <u>Action item carries.</u>
          </ul>
     <li> Update charter (Rumsey, Edwards):
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Charter has been updated. <u>Rumsey will send to Steering
               Committee members and to Towne for posting on web site,
               for review.</u>  Committee will vote on it at Reno meeting.
          </ul>
     <li> New ISO drafts posted on CGNS webpage (Wedan):
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Done.
          </ul>
     <li> Need for allowing <tt>GridLocation</tt>=<tt>FaceCenter</tt>
          for <tt>GridConnectivity</tt> (Rumsey):
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Rumsey has been in contact with the proposer (Harlan
               McMorris).  An official proposal for extension may be
               forthcoming from him.
          </ul>
     <li> Addition of two van der Weide proposals to website (Wedan):
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Done.
          </ul>
     <li> Abstract submission (Poinot, Rumsey, Bush):
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Submitted for 2004 AIAA Fluid Dynamics Conference in
               Portland ("Impact of CGNS on CFD Workflow")
          <li> Also noted that Poinot and Legensky will participate
               in panel discussion on "Integrated Computational and
               Visualization Environments" at AIAA meeting in Reno
               (Wed AM, January 7).
          </ul>
     </ol>
<br>
<li> ISO status/discussion (Cosner):<br><br>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> All four parts have passed their next gate, so we're OK for
          two more years.
     <li> Parts 52, 53, and 110 are now under formal configuration
          control. Part 237 is one gate behind, and thus not yet under
          formal configuration control.
     <li> Four months allowed for people to comment, none received yet.
          The time expires sometime near mid-January.
     <li> Boeing FY 2004 funding for this is still undecided. 
     </ol>
<br>
<li> Documentation issues and CGNStalk issues (Towne):<br><br>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Craig Day at AIAA will send ballot to CGNS Steering Committee
          members, for approval of current SIDS document as updated
          Recommended Practice, this month or next.
     </ol>
<br>
<li> Software status/discussion (Wedan):<br><br>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Discussion to take place at Steering Committee Meeting in Reno
          about releasing CGNS V2.3 (removing from beta status)
     <li> No documentation changes needed for V2.3.
     </ol>
<br>
<li> HDF-5 status/discussion (Poinot, Power):<br><br>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Question about whether or not PHDF-5 (Parallel) will
          automatically work if HDF-5 works?  The answer is no;
          different calls will have to be added in the Mid-Level
          Library. Boeing St. Louis has done similar work, and Bush
          thinks they can release it, but it uses ADF, not HDF-5.
     </ol>
<br>
<li> Extensions status/discussion:<br><br>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Reading/writing partial connectivity info (van der Weide): For
          unstructured grids, we cannot now read/write partial
          connectivity info.  This capability is needed for parallel IO,
          where you don't want to read connectivity info for entire grid
          on each processor. <u>Van der Weide will write proposal.</u>
     </ol>
<br>
<li> Other issues:<br><br>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Intelligent Light work/update (Edwards):
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Intelligent Light has finished Phase 1 NASA SBIR for
               improved data management for CFD, using CGNS.  Phase 2
               has been awarded, for two years, to start in January.
          <li> Will be addressing use of HDF-5, including parallel
               capability.
          <li> Will also add up to five proposed extensions (or two
               man-months work).  Extensions to be chosen by Steering
               Committee, and work to be completed within first eight
               months.  Committee to begin selection process at Reno
               meeting.
          <li> All CGNS software enhancements will be given to CGNS
               Committee for public release.
          <li> Alonso and Van der Weide at Stanford volunteered to work
               with Edwards to help set up benchmarks.
          </ul>
     <li> Reno meeting in January (Rumsey):
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Steering Committee Meeting tentatively scheduled to be
               held Wed, Jan 7, at 7:00 PM.
          </ul>
     </ol>
<br>
<li> Meeting was adjourned at 12:00 PM.<br><br>
<li> Summary of action items:<br><br>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Poinot will further investigate possible problem between V2.2
          and V2.3 related to ADF children IDs when using HDF-5 package.
     <li> Wedan will add Poinot and Power's HDF-5 implemetation package
          to SourceForge.
     <li> Alonso and Van derWeide will experiment with various record
          lengths to see what types of speed-up can be achieved.
     <li> Alonso and Van der Weide will test to see if there is a big
          slowdown with V2.3 when a link is present.
     <li> Bush and Rumsey will re-examine and prepare plan for
          discussing and down-selecting proposals for extension, for
          discussion at Steering Committee meeting in Reno.
     <li> (carried) Wedan will look into adding a "home page" at
          SourceForge, allowing more content &amp; description of CVS and
          release process.
     <li> (carried) Wedan will write and post an extension proposal,
          regarding issue of removed element list and element range.
     <li> Rumsey will send updated draft Charter to Steering Committee
          members and to Towne for posting on web site, for review.
     <li> Van der Weide will write proposal for partial read/writes of
          connectivity info.
     </ol>
</ol>

<a name="attendees"></a>
<h2>Attendees</h2>

<table cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0>
<tr valign=baseline><td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Juan Alonso<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Stanford
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Bob Bush<td>
   <td>Pratt &amp; Whitney
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Ray Cosner<td>
   <td>Boeing - Integrated Defense
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Armen Darian<td>
   <td>Boeing - Rocketdyne
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Dan Dominik<td>
   <td>Boeing - Rocketdyne
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>David Edwards<td>
   <td>Intelligent Light
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Pankaj Gupta<td>
   <td>Fluent
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Richard Hann<td>
   <td>Ansys/CFX
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Steve Karman<td>
   <td>UT Chattanooga
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Kevin Mack<td>
   <td>ADAPCO
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Marc Poinot<td>
   <td>ONERA
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Greg Power<td>
   <td>USAF/AEDC
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Rumsey<td>
   <td>NASA Langley
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Greg Stuckert<td>
   <td>Fluent
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Charlie Towne<td>
   <td>NASA Glenn
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Edwin Van der Weide<td>
   <td>Stanford
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Bruce Wedan<td>
   <td>ICEM CFD
</table>

<p>
<hr size=4 width=75%>
<div class=footer>
<!--#include virtual="../include/footer_small.html" -->
Last updated 25 Nov 2003

</body>
</html>
