<!-- CGNS Steering Committee Minutes -->

<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css">
<link href="minutes.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<title> CGNS Steering Committee Minutes </title>
</head>

<body text="#000000" bgcolor="#FFFFFF" link="#0000EE" vlink="#551A8B" alink="#FF0000">

<a href="#endnav"><img src="../blank.gif" border=0 alt="Skip navigation links"></a>
<small>
<center>
(<a href="../index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Documentation&nbsp;Home&nbsp;Page</b></a>)
(<a href="../charter/index.html"><b>Steering&nbsp;Committee&nbsp;Charter</b></a>)
(<a href="../overview/index.html"><b>Overview&nbsp;and&nbsp;Entry-Level&nbsp;Document</b></a>)
(<a href="../user/index.html"><b>A&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide&nbsp;to&nbsp;CGNS</b></a>)
(<a href="../sids/index.html"><b>Standard&nbsp;Interface&nbsp;Data&nbsp;Structures</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-ADF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap_hdf/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-HDF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../midlevel/index.html"><b>Mid-Level&nbsp;Library</b></a>)
(<a href="../adf/index.html"><b>ADF&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide</b></a>)
(<a href="../cgnstools/index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Tools&nbsp;and&nbsp;Utilities</b></a>)
</center>
</small>
<a name="endnav"></a>

<h1>CGNS Steering Committee</h1>

<h2>Telecon Minutes</h2>

5 November 2008

<p>
<ol>
<li> The meeting was called to order at 11:05 AM eastern time. There were
     <a href="#attendees">5 attendees</a>, listed below.
<p>
<li> The minutes of the <a href="telecon_sep08.html">10 September 2008
     meeting</a> were approved as posted on the web site.
<p>
<li> Status of previous action items
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Poinot to try Version 3 fix for HDF-5 indexing problem, and
          make sure it works for his applications.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet, but there was also some discussion on this
               point.  The index ordering for HDF-5 is now fixed in
               Version 3.0, but this is for people who use the MLL.  The
               question arises whether one of Marc's HDF-5 files, if
               given to someone else who uses MLL to read it, will be
               successful or not.  I.e., if a user like Marc does not
               use MLL, it is up to them to order the indices correctly.
               If they do not, then the file will not transfer correctly
               to other users who use MLL. <u>Hauser and Poinot will
               work together to resolve the issue of the HDF-5 indexing
               problem, both to make sure the fix in V3 works for Poinot
               and to check consistency of files generated without
               MLL.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey to add disclaimer about HDF-5 incorrect index ordering
          in Version 2.x to website.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done. Change can be seen at:
               <a href="http://cgns.sourceforge.net/hdf5.html">http://cgns.sourceforge.net/hdf5.html</a>.
          </ol>
     <li> Towne to add disclaimer about HDF-5 incorrect index ordering
          in Version 2.x in <a href="../midlevel/index.html">MLL
          documentation</a>.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.  Changes can be seen at:
               <p>
               <a href="../midlevel/grid.html#gridcoordinates">http://www.grc.nasa.gov/WWW/cgns/midlevel/grid.html#gridcoordinates</a><br>
               <a href="../midlevel/grid.html#elements">http://www.grc.nasa.gov/WWW/cgns/midlevel/grid.html#elements</a><br>
               <a href="../midlevel/solution.html#flowsolution">http://www.grc.nasa.gov/WWW/cgns/midlevel/solution.html#flowsolution</a>
          </ol>
     <li> Poinot to send Wedan his coding and other information related
          to HDF-5 compression.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan to incorporate compression capability into Version 3
          MLL.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet. <u>Action item carries.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan and Hauser to look into improving documentation and
          build instructions for V3.0.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet.  This action item will be combined with (h)
               and (i) to make a new action item associated with the
               upcoming release of V3.0. <u>Hauser and Wedan to improve
               documentation and build instructions for V3.0, remove
               instructions regarding XML output from configure script,
               make HDF-5 part of V3.0's tar file distribution, and
               generally upgrade the build capability prior to release
               of V3.0. Tentative plans to release V3.0 in January 2009.
               This was also added to <a href="#HDF5_todo">HDF-5 "to-do"
               list</a></u>.
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey to email committee and ask for vote on two existing
          proposals and collect responses.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done. Allmaras' General SIDS Improvement extension is
               ready to go, but Poinot's Rigid Motion Improvement
               needs some specific examples added, and a renewed
               consensus. Rumsey also brought up that we need to start
               to tackle some of the accepted proposals "awaiting
               implementation." <u>Rumsey to move Allmaras' proposal to
               "Awaiting implementation" column. Poinot to work with
               Power and others to bring Rigid Motion Improvement
               proposal to completion, including specific examples.
               Rumsey to compile list of potential programmers who might
               help to implement some of the outstanding proposals.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser to remove instructions regarding XML output from
          configure script in V3.0.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet. Combined to make a new action item.
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser to make HDF-5 part of V3.0's tar file distribution, and
          set up makefile appropriately.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet. Combined to make a new action item.
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser will add HDF-5 parallel code to SourceForge and will
          let users know when it is available.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet. <u>Action item carries.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Towne to modify <tt>NGON+NFACE</tt> documentation for V3 to
          include Feldman's suggestions, and to remove <tt>NGON +</tt>
          parent data as an option.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done. Changes can be seen at:
               <p>
               <a href="../beta/sids/gridflow.html#Elements">http://www.grc.nasa.gov/WWW/cgns/beta/sids/gridflow.html#Elements</a><br>
               <a href="../beta/sids/gridflow.html#ex:elements2">http://www.grc.nasa.gov/WWW/cgns/beta/sids/gridflow.html#ex:elements2</a>
          </ol>
     <li> Paul, Bussoletti, and Allmaras to continue to look into
          finding manpower development (particularly for MLL
          implementation) resources at Boeing.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet.  <u>Action item carries.</u> There was also
               discussion about NSF Industry Centers, which require
               a collaboration of several groups each contributing
               about 25K per year. Feldman also brought up the HPC
               Consortium, which is trying to tie multi-physics codes
               together... there is the question whether CGNS has
               something to offer to this group and possibly could join
               or contribute. Allmaras pointed out that if CGNS could
               gain the consortium's support, that it might help CGNS to
               gain more support from Boeing. <u>Hauser to contact members
               of the HPC Consortium to explore possibility of CGNS
               contributing to their effort.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Duque and Hauser to continue to develop proposal for handling
          sprays of unconnected points.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet. <u>Action item carries.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Duque and Hauser to continue to pursue NSF funding and look
          into idea of a fundraising collaborative.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Hauser has applied for NSF funding, including parallel
               development for CGNS, but there is probably only a very
               small chance that it will go through.
          </ol>
     <li> Poinot to forward a draft proposal on CGNS activities for
          EUCASS to Hauser &amp; Rumsey that will eventually go to the
          EUCASS organizers.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done. Poinot has forwarded the request to the EUCASS
               organizers.
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser to attend an upcoming HDF-5 meeting in Colorado, and
          find out more about what it means to become a non-profit like
          HDF-5 and how it would affect things.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done. Hauser gave a talk at the HDF-5 meeting and
               spoke to members of that group. He found out that they
               may be interested in attending the EUCASS meeting in
               July 2009 and contributing or participating in the
               CGNS activities there. Regarding becoming non-profit,
               HDF-5 was helped considerably by the fact that it has
               a long-term investment by NASA's earth observatory
               mission. Another thing learned: In HDF-5, if there
               are a very large number of zones, there are still
               performance issues, but HDF-5 has a method to "fix" this,
               using a different interface to HDF-5, which improves
               performance. <u>Hauser to send information on interface
               "fix" to improve performance of HDF-5 when there are many
               zones to Wedan, Poinot, and anyone else interested.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan to investigate issue of MLL deleting the entire node
          even though its new dimensions are the same.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet. <u>Action item carries.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser will take control of <i>cgns.org</i> domain name and
          will consider possibility of moving website to Utah State
          site.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not successful in obtaining an invoice from Ansys
               yet. <u>Action item carries.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser to contact Hunten about ISO/STEP and ask the best way
          for us to comment.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done. Decided to delete this action item and instead
               keep this as an open item.
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan to look into issue brought up by Miller (10/19/07) to
          write info one element at a time to save memory.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet. <u>Action item carries.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan to implement patch sent to him by Bussoletti to fix
          excessive memory usage by MLL.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet. <u>Action item carries.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey to email Hauser information on how to reserve a room
          for AIAA conference.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.
          </ol>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Open items (purpose of these is to not lose track of long-term
     issues that come up)
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Keep track of/resolve <a href="#HDF5_todo">HDF-5 "to-do" list</a>
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Many of these items are now completed for V3.0.
          </ol>
     <li> Keep track of progress with ISO/STEP.
     <li> Need for official certification process (test for compliance).
     <li> Develop method to write info one element at a time to save
          memory via something like <tt>cg_section_partialwrite</tt>
          (Miller 10/19/07 CGNSTalk)
     <li> Address issue of possible need for "long" instead of "int" to
          avoid signed 2 Gig limit (Miller 10/19/07 CGNSTalk).
     <li> Problem with 64-bit <tt>cg_goto_f</tt> (Gibeling 08/29/08
          CGNSTalk)
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Hauser plans to have face-to-face meeting at the AIAA meeting in
     Orlando in January 2009.  Tentatively set for Wednesday evening of
     the conference, January 7 at 7:00 PM.  Hauser will ask for telecon
     capability in case anyone is interested in calling in.
<p>
<li> Meeting was adjourned at 12:30 PM Eastern. Next Telecon date will
     be set at the AIAA meeting in Orlando.
<p>
<li> Summary of <b><u>action items</u></b>:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Hauser and Poinot will work together to resolve the issue of
          the HDF-5 indexing problem, both to make sure the fix in V3
          works for Poinot and to check consistency of files generated
          without MLL.
     <li> Wedan to incorporate compression capability into Version 3
          MLL.
     <li> Hauser and Wedan to improve documentation and build
          instructions for V3.0, remove instructions regarding XML
          output from configure script, make HDF-5 part of V3.0's tar
          file distribution, and generally upgrade the build capability
          prior to release of V3.0. Tentative plans to release V3.0 in
          January 2009.
     <li> Rumsey to move Allmaras' proposal to "Awaiting implementation"
          column.
     <li> Poinot to work with Power and others to bring Rigid Motion
          Improvement proposal to completion, including specific
          examples.
     <li> Rumsey to compile list of potential programmers who might help
          to implement some of the outstanding proposals.
     <li> Hauser will add HDF-5 parallel code to SourceForge and will
          let users know when it is available.
     <li> Paul, Bussoletti, and Allmaras to continue to look into
          finding manpower development (particularly for MLL
          implementation) resources at Boeing.
     <li> Hauser to contact members of the HPC Consortium to explore
          possibility of CGNS contributing to their effort.
     <li> Duque and Hauser to continue to develop proposal for handling
          sprays of unconnected points.
     <li> Hauser to send information on interface "fix" to improve
          performance of HDF-5 when there are many zones to Wedan,
          Poinot, and anyone else interested.
     <li> Wedan to investigate issue of MLL deleting the entire node
          even though its new dimensions are the same.
     <li> Hauser will take control of <i>cgns.org</i> domain name and
          will consider possibility of moving website to Utah State
          site.
     <li> Wedan to look into issue brought up by Miller (10/19/07) to
          write info one element at a time to save memory.
     <li> Wedan to implement patch sent to him by Bussoletti to fix
          excessive memory usage by MLL.
     </ol>
</ol>

<a name="attendees"></a>
<h2>Attendees</h2>

<table cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0>
<tr valign=baseline><td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Steve Allmaras<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Boeing Commercial
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Mark Anderson<td>
   <td>Concepts NREC
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Steve Feldman<td>
   <td>CD-ADAPCO
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Thomas Hauser<td>
   <td>Utah State
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Rumsey<td>
   <td>NASA Langley
</table>

<a name="HDF5_todo"></a>
<h2>Tentative to-do list in association with HDF-5 switchover</h2>

<ul>
<li> Complete and test parallel implementation
     <ul>
     <li> under development
     </ul>
<li> Complete and test API capability to automatically detect and switch
     between ADF and HDF-5 (transparent to user?)
     <ul>
     <li> <u>done in V3.0</u>
     </ul>
<li> Assess/minimize impact on software vendors using CGNS
     <ul>
     <li> under development (success with automatic detection transparent
          to user will minimize impact)
     </ul>
<li> Make changes recommended by HDF-5 to improve usability with HDF-5
     (e.g., character strings as opposed to character arrays)
     <ul>
     <li> <u>done</u>
     </ul>
<li> Assess compression capability of HDF-5
     <ul>
     <li> <u>done by Poinot - capability will be added to V3 MLL</u>
     </ul>
<li> CGNS configure scripts will need to be modified to check for
     availability of appropriate HDF-5 libraries.
     <ul>
     <li> <u>done in V3.0</u>
     </ul>
<li> Possibly add flag-based options when opening CGNS files.  For
     example: "follow links" vs. "don't follow links"; "use ADF" vs. "use
     HDF-5"; "translate file automatically" vs. "leave the file as-is";
     "compress" vs. "don't compress".
<li> Look into eliminating need for ID's from MLL
<li> Resolve "link-of-links" problem: will require HDF-5 fix by NCSA
     under development (1.8.0 beta)
     <ul>
     <li> <u>done in V3.0 in combination with HDF-5 V1.8</u>
     </ul>
<li> Are any changes needed in SIDS-to-HDF5 document?  Or is it
     up-to-date?
<li> Improve build capability of V3.0.
</ul>

<p>
<hr size=4 width=75%>
<div class=footer>
<!--#include virtual="../include/footer_small.html" -->
Last updated 19 Nov 2008

</body>
</html>
