<!-- CGNS Steering Committee Minutes -->

<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css">
<link href="minutes.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<title> CGNS Steering Committee Minutes </title>
</head>

<body text="#000000" bgcolor="#FFFFFF" link="#0000EE" vlink="#551A8B" alink="#FF0000">

<a href="#endnav"><img src="../blank.gif" border=0 alt="Skip navigation links"></a>
<small>
<center>
(<a href="../index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Documentation&nbsp;Home&nbsp;Page</b></a>)
(<a href="../charter/index.html"><b>Steering&nbsp;Committee&nbsp;Charter</b></a>)
(<a href="../overview/index.html"><b>Overview&nbsp;and&nbsp;Entry-Level&nbsp;Document</b></a>)
(<a href="../user/index.html"><b>A&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide&nbsp;to&nbsp;CGNS</b></a>)
(<a href="../sids/index.html"><b>Standard&nbsp;Interface&nbsp;Data&nbsp;Structures</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-ADF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap_hdf/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-HDF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../midlevel/index.html"><b>Mid-Level&nbsp;Library</b></a>)
(<a href="../adf/index.html"><b>ADF&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide</b></a>)
(<a href="../cgnstools/index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Tools&nbsp;and&nbsp;Utilities</b></a>)
</center>
</small>
<a name="endnav"></a>

<h1>CGNS Steering Committee</h1>

<h2>Telecon Minutes</h2>

21 March 2007<br>
11:00 AM Eastern Time

<p>
<ol>
<li> The meeting was called to order at 11:05 AM.  There were
     <a href="#attendees">10 attendees</a>, listed below.
<p>
<li> The minutes of the <a href="meeting_jan07.html">10 January 2007
     meeting</a> were approved as posted on the web site.
<p>
<li> Steering Committee Membership changes, updates, and issues
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Since last meeting, committee voted by e-mail to allow free
          and open usage of the CGNS logo.  Words to this effect have
          been added to the website.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Status of previous action items
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Rumsey to e-mail Craig Day and Michele Ringrose, to remind
          them to look into the status of the SIDS as AIAA Recommended
          Practice.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.  The latest document has been approved and will be
               printed soon.
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser to coordinate with Wedan and put parallel HDF-5 version
          of CGNS on SourceForge as beta release.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Ongoing. Hauser plans to send his 2.4 parallel version to
               Wedan to integrate. <u>Action item carries.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Poinot will test the HDF5 external link capability.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Ongoing. This relates to last item in the
               <a href="#HDF5_todo">HDF-5 "to-do" list</a>. See report
               below under <a href="#HDF5">HDF5</a>. <u>Poinot will
               continue to test and work with HDF5 external link
               capability.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey to get verification from Towne when the MLL
          documentation on all the recent changes related to 2.5 is
          posted.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done and posted.
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser and Alabi will finish completing the AIAA Course
          Profile Form by March 2007, and will start putting together
          the course in detail after that.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Ongoing.  <u>Action item carries.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey will send Towne the change to <tt>PYRA_14</tt> for
          fixing in the SIDS.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done and posted.
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan will see if there is a change needed in the MLL call
          <a href="../midlevel/bc.html#bc"><tt>cg_boco_normal_write</tt></a>
          (from Guzik e-mail).
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Currently this routine requires a normal index to be
               input (and written to the file) whenever a normal
               list is written, but this does not make sense for
               unstructured grids because unstructured grids do not
               use it.  As a result, <i>cgnscheck</i> complains.
               <u>Wedan will make changes to fix problem associated with
               <tt>NormalIndex</tt> and <tt>cg_boco_normal_write</tt> /
               <i>cgnscheck</i> for unstructured grids.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan and van der Weide will communicate, and Wedan will look
          into the issue of very slow I/O on some parallel file systems.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.  This is a fundamental problem associated with
               files having many (thousands) of nodes.  There is no
               quick fix for this, so this issue has been added to the
               list of <a href="#open_items">Open Items</a>.
          </ol>
     <li> Allmaras will study Wedan's new formulation as it relates to
          face-based storage, and will make a recommendation.  It may be
          necessary to hold another sub-committee telecon to discuss it.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.  The recommendation was to stay with the
               original Allmaras proposal. But there still may be
               some misunderstanding about Wedan's proposal, so it
               is necessary to hold another mini-telecon to discuss.
               <u>Rumsey will arrange mini-telecon among people interested
               in face-based storage method.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey will try to form a sub-committee to perform a more
          thorough review of the Regions extension before moving
          forward with it.  This will also test to see how well the
          sub-committee idea works as part of the extension approval
          process.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.  Subcommittee (Rumsey, Poinot, Bush, Fisher) has
               modified the proposal.  <u>Rumsey will post the new Regions
               proposal on the website and announce it to allow for a
               new round of comments.</u>
          </ol>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Open items (see <a href="#open_items">number 15 below</a>)
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> No discussion.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Possible CGNS short course for AIAA
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> See <a href="meeting_jan07.html#short_course">summary given in
          the January 2007 minutes</a>.
     <li> Alabi made excellent progress putting together a strawman
          course.  The Course Profile (proposal for course) needs to be sent
          to AIAA soon.
     <li> <u>Rumsey will contact U. Ghia (chair of Committee on
          Standards) to discuss whether any proceeds from the course can
          be kept in a CGNS fund for handling incidental expenses.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> ISO/STEP
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Nothing to report.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Documentation
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> New version of AIAA Recommended Practice is now fully approved
          by AIAA and will be printed soon.
     <li> Rumsey reported that several new
          examples of
          "real" CGNS files
          have been added
          to the website.
     <li> Rumsey reported that as a result of people sending him new
          examples, an issue came up with one company that may require
          a new proposal for extension.  They use zones with "sprays"
          of random points with no connectivity.  They currently cannot
          use <a href="../sids/conv.html#elementtypes">"<tt>NODE</tt>"
          type of connectivity</a> because these are not recognized as
          3-D elements in <i>cgnscheck</i>.  One solution is to allow
          a new element type (like <tt>NODE</tt>) - perhaps called
          <tt>UNCONNECTED3D</tt> - which would be recognized as valid
          for 3-D and would be included in the summation of "volumetric"
          elements. <u>Rumsey will develop a proposal to handle sprays
          of unconnected points.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="software"></a>
<li> Software
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Wedan mentioned working on adding a new layer between MLL
          and ADF.  This will allow easily writing HDF-5, ADF, or XML,
          as desired, at run-time!  This is not in the repository yet.
          <u>Wedan will send a copy of new capability for writing HDF-5,
          ADF, or XML to Hann.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="HDF5"></a>
<li> HDF-5
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Mark Poinot has been looking at the latest external linking
          capability of HDF5.  He sent in the following summary:
          <ol type=i>
          <li> The ADFH mount system has been suppressed and changed by
               HDF5 external links. This new feature is so close to our
               actual needs that the code is really simplified.
          <li> However, it seems we are the beta tester for this
               feature. I had a very good support from Quincey Koziol
               (NCSA) who has quickly released patched versions for our
               needs and had always gave me answers to my questions
               within hours.
          <li> The feature is implemented in ADFH but cannot be
               released. I have a non-blocking issue at close time,
               which has no effect on the actual use of the links, but
               that cannot be ignored. Such a close time error indicates
               an internal error somewhere, and thus this should be
               tracked and resolved. I had no time to put on this
               problem, I hope to have a slot during March. Then I would
               first try to reproduce the problem, in order to reduce
               the scope and find out whether it is related to ADFH or
               to HDF5. I suspect the (mis-?)use of HDF5 attributes
               through an HDF5 group.
          <li> I am very confident in acheiving this by summer 2007,
               so that we could run tons of tests for a Reno 2008
               release. Note that such a release is related to the
               public release of HDF5 with external links feature.
          </ol>
     <li> Quincey Koziol of NCSA emailed to say that there is a "stable
          format" snapshot up on their ftp server. Any files created
          with that snapshot (or later ones) WILL be read by future
          versions of the HDF5 library.  However, they are still
          wrapping up some features that don't affect the file format,
          along with some API compatibility issues, so we might have to
          adapt our code to slight tweaks in the API routine names, etc.
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="extensions"></a>
<li> Extensions
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Face-based storage proposal (from Allmaras) - ongoing (team
          needs to meet again!)
     <li> Regions proposal (from Rumsey) - ongoing (new proposal will be
          posted for comment soon)
     <li> A user (Yang) sent proposal via CGNSTalk for removing
          restrictions on
          <a href="../sids/cnct.html#GridConnectivity">Generalized
          Connectivity</a>.  He wants to be able to write
          <tt>CellListDonor</tt> without <tt>InterpolantsDonor</tt>.  We
          already made a change last year to allow no donor information
          at all, so their proposal is merely a step halfway between
          writing everything and writing very little.  The change
          required is only a few lines in the SIDS, and perhaps a minor
          change in <i>cgnscheck</i>.  No changes would be needed in
          the MLL. <u>Rumsey will summarize proposal for tweak to
          generalized connectivity for the committee and will ask for a
          vote via e-mail.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Other issues
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Next Telecon will probably be mid May.
     <li> Rumsey will not be present at the AIAA meeting in late June
          in Miami, so it is not known yet whether a face-to-face CGNS
          meeting will be held there or not. <u>Rumsey will communicate
          with Hauser about possibility of Hauser leading a CGNS meeting
          in Miami.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Meeting was adjourned at 11:52 AM.
<p>
<li> Summary of <b><u>action items</u></b>:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Hauser to coordinate with Wedan and put parallel HDF-5 version
          of CGNS on SourceForge as beta release.
     <li> Poinot will continue to test and work with HDF5 external link
          capability.
     <li> Hauser and Alabi will finish completing the AIAA Course
          Profile Form by March 2007, and will start putting together
          the course in detail after that.
     <li> Wedan will make changes to fix problem associated with
          <tt>NormalIndex</tt> and <tt>cg_boco_normal_write</tt> /
          <i>cgnscheck</i> for unstructured grids.
     <li> Rumsey will arrange mini-telecon among people interested in
          face-based storage method.
     <li> Rumsey will post the new Regions proposal on the website and
          announce it to allow for a new round of comments.
     <li> Rumsey will contact U. Ghia (chair of Committee on Standards)
          to discuss whether any proceeds from the course can be kept in
          a CGNS fund for handling incidental expenses.
     <li> Rumsey will develop a proposal to handle sprays of unconnected
          points.
     <li> Wedan will send a copy of new capability for writing HDF-5,
          ADF, or XML to Hann.
     <li> Rumsey will summarize proposal for tweak to generalized
          connectivity for the committee and will ask for a vote via
          e-mail.
     <li> Rumsey will communicate with Hauser about possibility of
          Hauser leading a CGNS meeting in Miami.
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="open_items"></a>
<li> Summary of <b><u>open items</u></b> from prior meetings (these are
     different from action items, in that they are open or unresolved
     issues that we want to keep track of, but there are no specific
     actions required of anyone at this point in time):
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Keep track of/resolve <a href="#HDF5_todo">HDF-5 "to-do" list</a>.
     <li> Keep track of progress with ISO/STEP.
     <li> Need for official certification process (test for compliance)
     <li> Need to add Karman's additional <tt>PYRA</tt> element type to
          allowed list (in software and in SIDS)
     <li> Need to upgrade/update <a href="../user/index.html">User's
          Guide</a> as appropriate (such as additional specific examples)
     <li> Need to resolve slow behavior and larger file sizes that can
          occur in CGNS files when there are many (thousands) of nodes.
     </ol>
</ol>

<a name="attendees"></a>
<h2>Attendees</h2>

<table cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0>
<tr valign=baseline><td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Ken Alabi<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Thaerocomp
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>John Chawner<td>
   <td>Pointwise, Inc.
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Armen Darian<td>
   <td>P&amp;W Rocketdyne
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Earl Duque<td>
   <td>Intelligent Light
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Mark Fisher<td>
   <td>Boeing IDS
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Richard Hann<td>
   <td>ANSYS/CFX
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Scott Imlay<td>
   <td>Tecplot
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Rumsey<td>
   <td>NASA Langley
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Kurt Weber<td>
   <td>Rolls-Royce / Allison
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Bruce Wedan<td>
   <td>ANSYS/ICEM CFD
</table>

<a name="HDF5_todo"></a>
<h2>Tentative to-do list in association with HDF-5 switchover</h2>

<ul>
<li> Complete and test parallel implementation
<li> Complete and test API capability to automatically detect and switch
     between ADF and HDF-5 (transparent to user?)
<li> Assess/minimize impact on software vendors using CGNS
<li> Make changes recommended by HDF-5 to improve usability with HDF-5
     (e.g., character strings as opposed to character arrays)
<li> Assess compression capability of HDF-5
<li> CGNS configure scripts will need to be modified to check for
     availability of appropriate HDF-5 libraries.
<li> Possibly add flag-based options when opening CGNS files.  For
     example: "follow links" vs. "don't follow links"; "use ADF" vs. "use
     HDF-5"; "translate file automatically" vs. "leave the file as-is";
     "compress" vs. "don't compress".
<li> Look into eliminating need for ID's from MLL
<li> Resolve "link-of-links" problem: will require HDF-5 fix by NCSA
     (beta implementation of "external links" is in the works -
     likely complete in early 2006?)
</ul>

<p>
<hr size=4 width=75%>
<div class=footer>
<!--#include virtual="../include/footer_small.html" -->
Last updated 26 Mar 2007

</body>
</html>
