<!-- CGNS Steering Committee Minutes -->

<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css">
<link href="minutes.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<title> CGNS Steering Committee Minutes </title>
</head>

<body text="#000000" bgcolor="#FFFFFF" link="#0000EE" vlink="#551A8B" alink="#FF0000">

<a href="#endnav"><img src="../blank.gif" border=0 alt="Skip navigation links"></a>
<small>
<center>
(<a href="../index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Documentation&nbsp;Home&nbsp;Page</b></a>)
(<a href="../charter/index.html"><b>Steering&nbsp;Committee&nbsp;Charter</b></a>)
(<a href="../overview/index.html"><b>Overview&nbsp;and&nbsp;Entry-Level&nbsp;Document</b></a>)
(<a href="../user/index.html"><b>A&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide&nbsp;to&nbsp;CGNS</b></a>)
(<a href="../sids/index.html"><b>Standard&nbsp;Interface&nbsp;Data&nbsp;Structures</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-ADF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap_hdf/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-HDF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../midlevel/index.html"><b>Mid-Level&nbsp;Library</b></a>)
(<a href="../adf/index.html"><b>ADF&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide</b></a>)
(<a href="../cgnstools/index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Tools&nbsp;and&nbsp;Utilities</b></a>)
</center>
</small>
<a name="endnav"></a>

<h1>CGNS Steering Committee</h1>

<h2>Meeting Minutes</h2>

AIAA Meeting, Portland, OR<br>
30 June 2004, 7:00 PM Pacific Time<br><br>

<ol>
<li> The meeting was called to order at 7:05 PM.
     There were <a href="#attendees">7 attendees</a>, listed below.
<br><br>
<li> The minutes of the 25 March 2004 telecon meeting were
     approved as posted on the web site.
<br><br>
<li> Status of previous action items:
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Wedan will formally archive old versions of software on SourceForge.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> not done yet - <u>action item carries</u>
          </ul>
     <li> Towne will take V2.3 documentation out of beta status.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> done - V2.3 is now official documentation
          </ul>
     <li> Rumsey will form informal HDF-5 task force to begin looking
          at timing to switch to HDF-5, and develop list of things that
          need to be done.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> done - <a href="#HDF5_members">current e-mail list of
               members</a> is below... anyone else interested in being a
               member of this list should contact Rumsey
          </ul>
     <li> Towne will post Hauser's CGNS paper(s) to website.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> done (Reno paper <a href="../papers/aiaa04-1088.pdf">AIAA
               2004-1088</a>)
          </ul>
     <li> Rumsey will set up & hold meeting for Portland.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> done
          </ul>
     <li> Alonso and Hann will send Wedan some of their examples of CGNS
          files and programs that write/read them, and Wedan will post
          them.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> not done yet - <u>action item carries</u>
          </ul>
     </ol>
<br>
<li> Status of open items:
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Issue of links causing slowdown (perhaps can modify open call
          so it does not follow links).
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> status unchanged
          </ul>
     <li> With next major release, eliminate <tt>PointList/Range</tt>
          + <tt>CellCenter</tt> possibility (and thus remove the need
          for <tt>GridLocation</tt> under <tt>BC_t</tt>).  Next major
          release of API will need to automatically make this alteration
          (transparent to user). Documentation (SIDS, User's Guide,
          other?) will need to be changed.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> status unchanged
          </ul>
     <li> Need to look into compression capability of HDF-5.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> this item is one of the items in the new list of
               <a href="#HDF5_todo">Tentative to-do list prior to HDF-5
               switchover</a>... this list as a whole will from this
               point be considered an open item.
          </ul>
     </ol>
<br>
<li> ISO status/discussion (Cosner, in absentia):
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Possibility to merge AP 237 (Fluid Dynamics) with AP 209
          (Finite Element Solid Mechanics).  Next ISO/STEP meeting is in
          UK in early July 2004, where they may decide this issue.
     </ol>
<br>
<li> Documentation issues and CGNStalk issues (Towne, in absentia):
     <ol type="a">
     <li> V2.3 now official documentation.  V2.2 is under "prior
          version," and V2.1 has been removed.  Currently there is a
          V2.4beta, which is same as V2.3.  We're not sure yet whether
          the next release will be V2.4, or V3.0.  It depends on when we
          make the big switchover to HDF-5 (which will be V3.0).
     <li> V2.3 will at some point become the updated AIAA Recommended
          Practice document. Craig Day at AIAA will first put it out for
          public review and comment. After that, CGNS members will be
          called on to vote.
     </ol>
<br>
<li> Software status/discussion (Wedan, in absentia):
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Nothing new, other than a few small bug fixes and configure
          script updates.
     </ol>
<br>
<li> HDF-5 status/discussion (Hauser, Poinot): 
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Hauser is currently testing prototype parallel implementation
          - goal is to be ready for his planned Reno 2005 paper.  He
          noted that it is necessary to create whole tree (or read whole
          tree) first using master processor, then can write (or read)
          data in parallel.
     <li> The question came up: what happens in parallel if want/need
          to create new node (with time-dependent data, for example)?
          <u>Hauser believes you would have to close then re-open the
          file, but he will check into this.</u>
     <li> It was noted that HDF-5 has its own complete set of tools
          available.  For example, there is a viewer program (like
          <a href="../cgnstools/adfviewer/index.html"><i>adfviewer</i></a>).
     <li> Quincey (NCSA) is currently working creation tracking issue in
          HDF-5.
     <li> After we switch over to HDF-5, users will need to download
          both CGNS software and HDF-5 software separately.  Configure
          scripts will need to be modified to check for availability of
          appropriate HDF-5 libraries. This item will be added to the
          "to do" list.
     <li> Hauser brought up question whether it wouldn't be better to
          eliminate ID's altogether in the MLL when we go to HDF-5.
          Reference by names instead.  This may be a big job, but it may
          be better for us in the long run.  This item will be added to
          the "to do" list.
     <li> Poinot reiterated need for SIDS-to-HDF-5 file mapping
          document, prior to switch. This item will be added to the "to
          do" list.
     <li> The group discussed a possible date to shoot for the
          switch-over:  Summer 2005 was offered as a possible goal!  Is
          this feasible?  There is unlikely to be funding available for
          any part of this effort. <u>This will be discussed further at
          the next CGNS telecon.</u>
     </ol>
<br>
<li> Extensions status/discussion (Edwards, in absentia):
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Intelligent Light (IL) is completing 6 extensions, as part
          of their SBIR.  They should be completed in July, for beta
          testing.  They are looking for volunteers to test the new
          extensions.
     <li> Issue related to the EM extension (units) was discussed.  8
          units apparently cover everything. IL will probably implement
          only new <tt>DimensionalExponents</tt> call for now (with 8
          units), and <tt>DimensionalUnits</tt> will remain at 5 with
          the additional 3 being required to be certain units (electric
          current=Amperes, amnt of substance=moles, and luminous
          intensity=candelas).  The group felt this was not desirable
          in the long run, and it should be a high priority item to
          create new <tt>DimensionalUnits</tt> calls to handle all 8,
          for consistency, at the very least by the time we switch over
          to HDF-5. <u>This will be added as an open issue.</u> <u>Also,
          Rumsey will send an e-mail to CGNSTalk and Tom Shih (CoS) to
          make everyone aware of this issue.</u>
     </ol>
<br>
<li> Other issues:
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Poinot presented a CGNS paper in Portland AIAA meeting:
          <a href="../papers/aiaa04-2142.pdf">AIAA 2004-2142</a>.
          <u>Rumsey will send to Towne to post.</u>
     <li> In a recent AIAA survey, general membership expressed the
          desire to see a greater promotion of CGNS.  AIAA is asking for
          ideas on how they can help us with this.  At the Committee on
          Standards (CoS) meeting, they suggested that we draft a letter
          that AIAA can send to commercial CFD companies' presidents,
          discussing AIAA's support of the CGNS standard. The CoS may
          also write letters to technical contacts as well. <u>Rumsey
          will work with Tom Shih (chair of CoS) to draft a letter for
          AIAA.</u>
     <li> It was decided to wait to hold the next CGNS telecon until
          September, to avoid conflicts with summer holidays.
     <li> <u>A new "open item" is to eventually align / resolve
          differences between SIDS and latest ISO/STEP, as each
          continues to evolve.</u>
     <li> Issue was brought up that we may want to add flag-based
          options when opening CGNS files.  For example: "follow
          links" vs. "don't follow links"; "use ADF" vs. "use HDF-5";
          "translate file automatically" vs. "leave the file as-is";
          "compress" vs. "don't compress". This will be added to "to do"
          list.
     <li> Poinot asked the question: currently if you use MLL you are
          compliant: but if people write their own MLL, how can we
          insure they are compliant?  Set up "ISO test suite"?
     <li> The request was made whether we can put all documentation
          (<i>.tex</i> files?) on SourceForge. <u>Rumsey will check with
          Towne about this.</u>
     <li> Question about whether it might be a good idea to have a "CGNS
          User's Meeting" at the AIAA summer 2005 meeting. <u>This will
          be discussed further at the next CGNS telecon.</u>
     </ol>
<br>
<li> Meeting was adjourned at 8:20 PM.
<br><br>
<li> Summary of <u><b>action items</b></u>:
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Wedan will formally archive old versions of software on
          SourceForge.
     <li> Alonso and Hann will send Wedan some of their examples of CGNS
          files and programs that write/read them, and Wedan will post them.
     <li> Hauser will check into parallel issues regarding
          time-dependent data.
     <li> Rumsey to send e-mail to CGNStalk & Shih regarding 8 units
          issue.
     <li> Rumsey to send Poinot's AIAA paper to Towne to post.
     <li> Rumsey to work with Tom Shih of CoS to draft letter from AIAA
          to software companies urging active support of CGNS.
     <li> Rumsey to check with Towne regarding posting documentation to
          SourceForge.
     <li> Rumsey to discuss (during next telecon) the possibility of
          holding a CGNS User's meeting in summer 2005, in conjunction with
          the AIAA meeting.
     <li> Rumsey to discuss (during next telecon) the possible date of
          summer 2005 as a goal for switching over to HDF-5.
     </ol>
<br>
<li> Summary of <u><b>open items</b></u> (these are different from
     action items, in that they are open or unresolved issues that we
     want to keep track of, but there are no specific actions required
     of anyone at this point in time):
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Issue of links causing slowdown (perhaps can modify open call
          so it does not follow links).
     <li> With next major release, eliminate the
          <tt>Pointlist/Range</tt> + <tt>CellCenter</tt> possibility
          (and thus remove the need for <tt>GridLocation</tt> under
          <tt>BC_t</tt>).  Next major release of API will need to
          automatically make the alteration (transparent to the
          user). Documentation (SIDS, User's Guide, other?) will need to
          be changed.
     <li> Resolve <a href="#HDF5_todo">HDF-5 "to-do" list</a>.
     <li> Issue of 8 units - need consistency between
          <tt>DimensionalUnits</tt> and <tt>DimensionalExponents</tt>.
     <li> Eventually resolve any differences between SIDS and ISO/STEP.
     </ol>
</ol>

<a name="attendees"></a>
<h2>Attendees</h2>

<table cellspacing=0 cellpadding=0 border=0>
<tr valign=baseline><td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Dan Dominik<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Boeing - Rocketdyne
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Thomas Hauser<td>
   <td>Utah State University
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Mori Mani<td>
   <td>Boeing, St. Louis
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Nelson<td>
   <td>ITAC
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Marc Poinot<td>
   <td>ONERA
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Rahaim<td>
   <td>Rotordynamics Seal Research
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Rumsey<td>
   <td>NASA Langley
</table>

<a name="HDF5_members"></a>
<h2>List of people on HDF-5 task force</h2>

<table cellspacing=0 cellpadding=0 border=0>
<tr valign=baseline><td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Robert Bush
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>David Edwards
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Mark Fisher
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Richard Hann
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Thomas Hauser
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Quincey Koziol
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Marc Poinot
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Greg Power
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Rumsey
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Ken Wall
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Edwin van der Weide
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Bruce Wedan
</table>

<a name="HDF5_todo"></a>
<h2>Tentative to-do list prior to HDF-5 switchover</h2>

<ul>
<li> Complete and test parallel implementation
<li> Complete and test API capability to automatically detect and switch
     between ADF and HDF-5 (transparent to user?)
<li> Assess/minimize impact on software vendors using CGNS
<li> Make changes recommended by HDF-5 to improve usability with HDF-5
     (e.g., character strings as opposed to character arrays)
<li> HDF-5 must fix "creation tracking"
<li> Assess compression capability of HDF-5
<li> Create SIDS-to-HDF-5 documentation (Poinot?)
<li> CGNS configure scripts will need to be modified to check for
     availability of appropriate HDF-5 libraries.
<li> Possibly add flag-based options when opening CGNS files.  For
     example: "follow links" vs. "don't follow links"; "use ADF" vs. "use
     HDF-5"; "translate file automatically" vs. "leave the file as-is";
     "compress" vs. "don't compress".
<li> Look into eliminating need for ID's from MLL
</ul>

<p>
<hr size=4 width=75%>
<div class=footer>
<!--#include virtual="../include/footer_small.html" -->
Last updated 7 July 2004

</body>
</html>
