<!-- CGNS Steering Committee Minutes -->

<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css">
<link href="minutes.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<title> CGNS Steering Committee Minutes </title>
</head>

<body text="#000000" bgcolor="#FFFFFF" link="#0000EE" vlink="#551A8B" alink="#FF0000">

<a href="#endnav"><img src="../blank.gif" border=0 alt="Skip navigation links"></a>
<small>
<center>
(<a href="../index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Documentation&nbsp;Home&nbsp;Page</b></a>)
(<a href="../charter/index.html"><b>Steering&nbsp;Committee&nbsp;Charter</b></a>)
(<a href="../overview/index.html"><b>Overview&nbsp;and&nbsp;Entry-Level&nbsp;Document</b></a>)
(<a href="../user/index.html"><b>A&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide&nbsp;to&nbsp;CGNS</b></a>)
(<a href="../sids/index.html"><b>Standard&nbsp;Interface&nbsp;Data&nbsp;Structures</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-ADF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap_hdf/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-HDF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../midlevel/index.html"><b>Mid-Level&nbsp;Library</b></a>)
(<a href="../adf/index.html"><b>ADF&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide</b></a>)
(<a href="../cgnstools/index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Tools&nbsp;and&nbsp;Utilities</b></a>)
</center>
</small>
<a name="endnav"></a>

<h1>CGNS Steering Committee</h1>

<h2>Meeting Minutes</h2>

24 June 2002<br>
7:00pm<br>
St. Louis, Missouri

<p>
Bob Bush called the meeting to order at 7:00.
There were 10 attendees at the informal CGNS Steering Committee meeting
held at the AIAA Summer fluids conferences.
Attendees are <a href="#attendees">listed below</a>.

<ul>
<li> <b>Charter Business</b> - 
     Bob Bush publicly thanked Alexandre Corjon who has been representing AM
     Airbus on the Steering Committee, and reported that Thierry Chevalier
     will be taking over this role.

     <p>
     Bob Bush noted that the Charter calls for a chairperson election every
     2 years.  We have been somewhat remiss in this department, and so plan
     to hold an election at the winter meeting at the AIAA conference in
     Reno in January.  Bob would like to pass the mantle and use this as an
     opportunity to re-invigorate the committee.  Nominations or volunteers
     are encouraged to contact Bob.  This will be a topic of discussion at
     future telecons.
<br><br>
<li> <b>ISO Status</b> - 
     Ray Cosner provided an overview of the ISO standard development effort.
     The effort is on track for approval of the various parts towards the end
     of 2004.  We are getting closer to voting time, so Ray is soliciting
     additional international contacts to provide support.  Bob Bush will
     send Ray the contact information for Theiry Chevalier, Marc Poinot
     and Jan B. Vos.  Others are encouraged to send additional contact
     information; Ray has a standard introductory letter and can take it from
     there.

     <p>
     There will be a detailed technical review of the ISO standard, most
     likely the first week of November hosted by Lockheed Martin.  This will
     be the best opportunity for the CGNS community to make detailed comments
     on the evolving ISO standard.  Participation is encouraged.  Ray Cosner
     will be providing details as we get closer to the date.
<br><br>
<li> <b>Documentation</b> - 
     Charlie Towne could not be present, but indicated to the Chairman that
     the revised documentation for Version 2.1 is now installed on the web in
     the default locations.  The older documentation is still available via
     other links.

     <p>
     Jim French and Craig Day could not be present.  However, they indicated
     to the Chairman that the voting for the standard has been completed.  It
     is not clear what the next steps are, but it is anticipated that the
     documentation will be available as an AIAA Recommended Practice soon.

     <p>
     The committee discussed how to move the documentation updates that are
     continually occurring reflected in the AIAA Recommended Practice.  The
     committee agreed that we could make the SIDS document a DRAFT AIAA
     Recommended Practice, and label it as such on the web site.  Then,
     periodically, as significant changes to the SIDS are implemented and
     accepted, a revised Recommended Practice will be voted on and released.
     Unfortunately, none of the principals could attend the meeting, so
     the Chairman asks Charlie Towne, Jim French and Craig Day to work out
     appropriate arrangements, and feedback any issues that arise.

     <p>
     Bob Bush is not sure of the process to use in answering the few
     questions that were brought up during the public comment period.  The
     questions were discussed briefly at the meeting, and Bob will draft a
     set of responses, and ask for guidance on how to proceed.

     <p>
     One of the issues raised is the need for a simplified standard to
     facilitate new user familiarization.  The User's Guide was one attempt
     at a simplified set of documentation.  Mark Fisher also suggested that
     there may be instances where information can be stored in more than one
     way, and we should streamline and/or eliminate the duplications.  It was
     generally agreed that we should document and emphasize the preferred
     approach for duplicate information, and discourage use of alternate
     methods.  Mark volunteered to document some of the duplications he has
     in mind so we can try to address this issue.
<br><br>
<li> <b>Extensions</b> - 
     Marc Poinot could not attend, but indicated to the Chairman that he
     is working on an HDF5 implementation for the mid-level library which
     replaces the ADF core.  This will likely be a link time option and
     require no, or few, changes to user programs.

     <p>
     Ray Cosner also indicated that the ISO standard effort is still
     struggling with how to represent binary data.  Currently the path
     of least resistance seems to be to use HDF5 for the binary data
     representation.  Ray asked for any known objections to going in this
     direction, but there was no experience with HDF5 at the meeting.  Please
     send Ray and Bob Bush any information you might have - for or against
     using HDF5 as the ISO standard.

     <p>
     Marc Poinot's HDF5 implementation provide a starting point for this
     effort.  However, for backward compatibility, and ease of transition, we
     will also likely need binary translation routines which will re-format a
     file between HDF5 and ADF.

     <p>
     Chris Rumsey reported on the progress of the Langley sub-contract
     to extend the CGNS software.  Several options and extensions are
     being implemented and tested, including a translator utility
     program, a new API <tt>call cg_delete_node</tt>, and new
     extensions <tt>Gravity_t</tt>, <tt>Axisymmetry_t</tt> and
     <tt>RotatingCoordinates_t</tt>.  Wall Functions, periodic BC's and
     rotor-stator interfaces are still being defined.  Bob Bush, Mark
     Fisher and Chris Rumsey met briefly after the meeting to discuss these
     extensions.  Chris Rumsey volunteered to re-write the proposals in
     SIDS-speak, and put them back out for review.

     <p>
     Mark Fisher had a few ideas for additional extensions, including surface
     groupings and solution data at boundaries, and agreed to draft such
     proposals for review.
<br><br>
<li> <b>Issues</b> - 
     There were no additional issues, and the meeting was adjourned around
     8:30.
</ul>

<a name="attendees"></a>
<h2>Attendees</h2>

Bob Bush<br>
Dan Dominik<br>
Chris Rumsey<br>
Steve Legensky<br>
David Edwards<br>
Rick Matus<br>
John Benek<br>
Greg Power<br>
Steve Karman<br>
Ray Cosner

<p>
<hr size=4 width=75%>
<div class=footer>
<!--#include virtual="../include/footer_small.html" -->
Last updated 2 July 2002

</body>
</html>
