<!-- CGNS Steering Committee Minutes -->

<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css">
<link href="minutes.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<title> CGNS Steering Committee Minutes </title>
</head>

<body text="#000000" bgcolor="#FFFFFF" link="#0000EE" vlink="#551A8B" alink="#FF0000">

<a href="#endnav"><img src="../blank.gif" border=0 alt="Skip navigation links"></a>
<small>
<center>
(<a href="../index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Documentation&nbsp;Home&nbsp;Page</b></a>)
(<a href="../charter/index.html"><b>Steering&nbsp;Committee&nbsp;Charter</b></a>)
(<a href="../overview/index.html"><b>Overview&nbsp;and&nbsp;Entry-Level&nbsp;Document</b></a>)
(<a href="../user/index.html"><b>A&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide&nbsp;to&nbsp;CGNS</b></a>)
(<a href="../sids/index.html"><b>Standard&nbsp;Interface&nbsp;Data&nbsp;Structures</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-ADF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap_hdf/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-HDF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../midlevel/index.html"><b>Mid-Level&nbsp;Library</b></a>)
(<a href="../adf/index.html"><b>ADF&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide</b></a>)
(<a href="../cgnstools/index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Tools&nbsp;and&nbsp;Utilities</b></a>)
</center>
</small>
<a name="endnav"></a>

<h1>CGNS Steering Committee</h1>

<h2>Telecon Minutes</h2>

22 March 2006<br>
11:00 AM Eastern Time

<p>
<ol>
<li> The meeting was called to order at 11:05 AM.  There were
     <a href="#attendees">13 attendees</a>, listed below.
<p>
<li> The minutes of the <a href="meeting_jan06.html">11 January 2006
     meeting</a> were approved as posted on the web site.
<p>
<li> Steering Committee Membership
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Daniel Einstein (Pacific Northwest National Laboratory)
          introduced himself
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> he is interested in joining the steering committee
          <li> works in area of computational physiology
          <li> committee voted to add Pacific NW National Lab to
               steering committee: <u>Towne will add Pacific Northwest
               National Laboratory to
               <a href="../charter/index.html">Steering Committee
               Charter</a>.</u>
          </ul>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Status of previous action items:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Rumsey and Towne to update
          <a href="../charter/index.html">Charter</a> with changes to
          committee membership.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> done
          </ul>
     <li> Rumsey will contact Aftosmis about possible participation on
          committee.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> done - no response
          </ul>
     <li> Allmaras will write explicit documentation, for addition to
          SIDS, describing face-based storage and providing explicit
          examples for using the method, and will send to Rumsey and
          Michal for review.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> done
          <li> we need other committee members to look at it and give
               comments
          <li> it currently works with existing MLL (it is merely a
               documentation change), but do we need to worry about
               mixing cell-based with face-based in the same file or
               zone? do we need some sort of descriptor node so another
               user can easily identify what method is being used?
          <li> Fisher, Poinot, Hann, Weber, Allmaras, Rumsey will be
               on team to evaluate this proposal and decide what to
               do.  <u>Rumsey will forward Allmaras's documentation on
               face-based storage method to Fisher, Poinot, Hann, Weber.</u>
          </ul>
     <li> Wedan will write documentation for SIDS and MLL as appropriate
          on Rind-for-unstructured and send to Rumsey, Norris, and Towne.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Not done yet.  <u>Action item carries.</u>
          </ul>
     <li> Wedan to look into issue of memory allocation for
          <a href="../midlevel/descriptor.html#descriptor"><tt>cg_descriptor_read</tt></a>
          (related to use of <i>malloc</i>).
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> done
          <li> this involves C-usage of
               <a href="../midlevel/links.html"><tt>link_read</tt></a>,
               <a href="../midlevel/families.html#geometry"><tt>geo_read</tt></a>,
               <a href="../midlevel/descriptor.html#descriptor"><tt>descriptor_read</tt></a>,
               and <a href="../midlevel/auxiliary.html#convergence"><tt>convergence_read</tt></a>
          <li> other MLL routines require user to <i>malloc</i> memory,
               and free up space
          <li> but these 4 routines are different in that they
               <i>malloc</i> the character strings for you
          <li> Wedan added new <tt>cg_free</tt> MLL routine (currently
               in CVS) so user can free up space "<i>malloc</i>"ed by
               these 4 routines
          <li> Documentation for this call still needed.  <u>Wedan to write
               up documentation on <tt>cg_free</tt>.</u>
          </ul>
     <li> Wedan to post HDF-5
          policy statement
          on website, and include link to
          <a href="http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/">HDF-5 site</a>
          <img src="../external.png" alt="external link">.  Also
          Wedan will try to give Rumsey access to the CGNS website.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> first part done
          <li> Rumsey now helps Wedan make changes to the site, but sole
               control still resides at ANSYS/ICEM
          </ul>
     <li> Rumsey will summarize Poinot's handling of source terms for
          internal BCs, and pass on to others through CGNSTalk.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> done
          </ul>
     <li> Rumsey to send Stuckert and Bush a copy of invitation letter
          to panelists for reference.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> done
          </ul>
     <a name="item4i"></a>
     <li> Rumsey to look into advertising the tutorial session to be
          held in San Francisco.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> done
          <li> AIAA did not want to advertise in the conference
               bulletin, because of possible conflicts with AIAA courses
               that attendees are paying for
          <li> AIAA recommended that we make one or more posters, and
               also 1-page flyers. <u>Poinot and Rumsey will work on
               making a poster and flyer, and will forward to steering
               committee prior to printing.</u>
          <li> Hann recommended looking into advertising at
               <a href="http://www.cfd-online.com/">CFD-Online</a>
               <img src="../external.png" alt="external link">.
               <u>Rumsey will look into advertising the SF tutorial session
               at CFD-Online.</u>
          </ul>
     <li> Wedan will investigate <tt>InwardNormalList</tt> problem (lines
          1877-1878 in <i>cgns_internal.c</i>).
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> done (bug fixed)
          </ul>
     <li> Wedan will look into MLL changes associated with making
          <tt>CellList+InterpolantsDonor</tt> (under
          <a href="../sids/cnct.html#GridConnectivity"><tt>GridConnectivity</tt></a>)
          optional rather than required.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> done - new MLL routine <tt>cg_conn_write_short</tt>
               written (in CVS)
          </ul>
     <li> Rumsey will make SIDS doc changes associated with making
          <tt>CellList+InterpolantsDonor</tt> (under
          <a href="../sids/cnct.html#GridConnectivity"><tt>GridConnectivity</tt></a>)
          optional rather than required.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> done - currently posted in Beta documentation
          <li> Discussion held about version numbering and documentation
               (summary in <a href="#item8">section 8</a> below)
          </ul>
     <li> Rumsey and Bush will look at need for multiple
          <a href="../sids/cnct.html#ZoneGridConnectivity"><tt>ZoneGridConnectivities</tt></a>
          for <a href="../sids/timedep.html">time-dependent data</a> and
          will put together a preliminary proposal.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> done - new proposal submitted
          </ul>
     <li> Alonso will forward to Rumsey some preliminary ideas on levels
          of compliance for vendors, related to problems he has
          encountered.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Not done yet.  <u>Action item carries.</u>
          </ul>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Planning for San Francisco AIAA meeting
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Two major CGNS events planned: Panel discussion and evening
          tutorial session
     <li> Panel discussion will be "CGNS Practical Applications in
          CFD", under auspices of Fluid Dynamics TC, Monday June 5,
          1PM.  We currently have 5 panel members: Cayre (SNECMA), Sudre
          (Eurocopter), Poinot (ONERA), Hann (Ansys-CFX), Fisher (or
          Mani or Allmaras) (Boeing). But Cayre and Sudre are not sure
          about being able to attend.  <u>Rumsey will send Fisher more
          information about SF Panel discussion.</u>
     <li> Discussion held about evening tutorial. 
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> we already discussed advertising (see
               <a href="#item4i">4i</a>)
          <li> 5 tutors are Rumsey, Wedan, van der Weide, Hauser, Poinot
          <li> Rumsey has requested a room sized for 50 people
          <li> Question came up whether it's a good idea to divide
               tutorial into into "Basic" and "Advanced" sections.
               Perhaps better to just show topics and proceed naturally
               from basic to advanced?  Or change "advanced" to
               "in-depth"?  No decision made.  Poinot and Rumsey will
               work on the advertising poster and see how it comes out -
               and decide what to call things at that point.
          </ul>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Open items (see <a href="#item15">number 15 below</a>):
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> No discussion
     </ol>
<p>
<li> ISO/STEP
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Hunten reported that of four new STEP Integrated Resource
          (IR) documents developed during CGNS STEP integration, 2
          are done (Parts 107 and 53) and 2 are in process (Parts
          52 and 110). They are combining the original AP 209 with
          an integrated engineering analysis framework and CGNS to
          create a second version of AP209 (AP209E2).  Expect ISO
          committee draft for ballot around September 2006.  They
          hope to eventually develop an API standard based upon the
          currently-being-developed STEP Binary standard based upon
          HDF-5 to be associated with the AP 209E2. The latest revision
          of the AP 209 planning model is attached
          (<a href="attachments/AP209E2_Planning_Model.1.3.html">HTML</a>,
          <a href="attachments/AP209E2_Planning_Model.1.3.pdf">PDF</a>).
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="item8"></a>
<li> Documentation
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> <u>Towne will check with AIAA on the status of the latest
          Recommended Practice document.</u>
     <li> Version numbering discussion
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> generally, we consider e.g. 2.0 &rarr; 3.0 a major new
               release, with possible loss of some compatability - it is
               formally announced
          <li> 2.3 &rarr; 2.4 a fairly significant new release, with
               compatability maintained - it is also formally announced
          <li> when there are fairly minor changes, like bug fixes or
               small enhancements that do not affect most users, they
               sometimes come out unannounced (e.g., 2.4.2 &rarr; 2.4.3)
          <li> the question is how to handle minor changes when the
               small changes involve a need for documentation change or
               addition
          <li> Towne indicated that the decision of determining the
               version number can be made independent of consideration
               of the documentation.  In other words, if the new
               documentation goes with 2.4.4, then this version number
               is posted at the top of the SIDS document.  The most
               important thing is good communication between Wedan and
               Towne, so each is fully aware of what the other is doing.
          </ul>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Software
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> No discussion
     </ol>
<p>
<li> HDF-5
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Koziol at NCSA is working on revisions to group format in
          HDF-5, and plans to wrap up sometime this spring for release
          1.8.0.
     <li> Hauser's student is almost ready with a beta release for
          parallel HDF-5
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> <u>Hauser will send to Alonso and van der Weide to try out</u>
          <li> After this, it will be made available on SourceForge
          </ul>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Extensions
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> There are several new proposals for extension (the first 3 are
          already posted), but technical problems on the website make it
          impossible to access them yet.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Averaging Interfaces - (Magnan)
          <li> Face Center Connectivity - (deVito)
          <li> Multiple zone connectivities for time-dependent - (Rumsey)
          <li> Fluid-structure interaction with deformable boundaries -
               (Einstein) 
          </ul>
     <li> <u>Rumsey will forward all new proposals to Steering Committee
          for comments.</u> Deadline for response will be in a few months.
     <li> <u>Rumsey will have Einstein's FSI proposal posted to the
          website.</u>
     <li> There is also still a need for handling source terms without
          having to specify them over the entire field, but rather
          only over a small "region" or "regions".  One possibility is
          to springboard off of Sayre's
          existing
          proposal on "Element Regions", which applies
          only to unstructured grids.  We need an interested person
          willing to extend this and/or create a new source term
          ("region") proposal for extension!
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Other issues:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Next telecon will be tentatively held on Wed, May 10 at 11 AM
          eastern.
     <li> We will also try to hold a special telecon just for the
          participants/leaders/panelists at the San Francisco meeting,
          probably earlier in May, to coordinate in preparation for the
          event.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Meeting was adjourned at 12:15 PM.
<p>
<li> Summary of <b><u>action items</u></b>:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Towne will add Pacific Northwest National Laboratory to
          <a href="../charter/index.html">Steering Committee Charter</a>.
     <li> Rumsey will forward Allmaras's documentation on face-based
          storage method to Fisher, Poinot, Hann, Weber.
     <li> Wedan will write documentation for SIDS and MLL as appropriate
          on Rind-for-unstructured and send to Rumsey, Norris, and
          Towne.
     <li> Wedan to write up documentation on <tt>cg_free</tt>.
     <li> Poinot and Rumsey will work on making a poster and flyer
          for the SF tutorial session, and will forward to steering
          committee prior to printing.
     <li> Rumsey will look into advertising the SF tutorial session at
          <a href="http://www.cfd-online.com/">CFD-Online</a>
          <img src="../external.png" alt="external link">.
     <li> Alonso will forward to Rumsey some preliminary ideas on
          levels of compliance for vendors, related to problems he has
          encountered.
     <li> Rumsey will send Fisher more information about SF Panel
          discussion.
     <li> Towne will check with AIAA on the status of the latest
          Recommended Practice document.
     <li> Hauser will send parallel version of CGNS with HDF-5 to Alonso
          and van der Weide to try out.
     <li> Rumsey will forward all new proposals for extension to
          Steering Committee for comments.
     <li> Rumsey will have Einstein's FSI proposal posted to the
          website.
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="item15"></a>
<li> Summary of <b><u>open items</u></b> from prior meetings (these are
     different from action items, in that they are open or unresolved
     issues that we want to keep track of, but there are no specific
     actions required of anyone at this point in time):
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Keep track of/resolve <a href="#HDF5_todo">HDF-5 "to-do" list</a>.
     <li> Keep track of progress with ISO/STEP.
     <li> Need for official certification process (test for compliance)
     <li> Need to add Karman's additional <tt>PYRA</tt> element type to
          allowed list (in software and in SIDS)
     <li> Need to upgrade/update <a href="../user/index.html">User's
          Guide</a> as appropriate (such as additional specific examples)
     </ol>
</ol>

<a name="attendees"></a>
<h2>Attendees</h2>

<table cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0>
<tr valign=baseline><td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Steven Allmaras<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Boeing Commercial
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Armen Darian<td>
   <td>Pratt &amp; Whitney - Rocketdyne
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Daniel Einstein<td>
   <td>Pacific NW National Laboratory
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Mark Fisher<td>
   <td>Boeing - IDS/St. Louis 
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Richard Hann<td>
   <td>ANSYS/CFX 
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Thomas Hauser<td>
   <td>Utah State
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Keith Hunten<td>
   <td>Lockheed Martin
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Robert Magnan<td>
   <td>Hydro Quebec
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Marc Poinot<td>
   <td>ONERA
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Greg Power<td>
   <td>USAF/AEDC
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Rumsey<td>
   <td>NASA Langley
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Charlie Towne<td>
   <td>NASA Glenn
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Kurt Weber<td>
   <td>Rolls Royce/Allison</table>

<a name="HDF5_todo"></a>
<h2>Tentative to-do list in association with HDF-5 switchover</h2>

<ul>
<li> Complete and test parallel implementation
<li> Complete and test API capability to automatically detect and switch
     between ADF and HDF-5 (transparent to user?)
<li> Assess/minimize impact on software vendors using CGNS
<li> Make changes recommended by HDF-5 to improve usability with HDF-5
     (e.g., character strings as opposed to character arrays)
<li> Assess compression capability of HDF-5
<li> CGNS configure scripts will need to be modified to check for
     availability of appropriate HDF-5 libraries.
<li> Possibly add flag-based options when opening CGNS files.  For
     example: "follow links" vs. "don't follow links"; "use ADF" vs. "use
     HDF-5"; "translate file automatically" vs. "leave the file as-is";
     "compress" vs. "don't compress".
<li> Look into eliminating need for ID's from MLL
<li> Resolve "link-of-links" problem: will require HDF-5 fix by NCSA
     (beta implementation of "external links" is in the works -
     likely complete in early 2006?)
</ul>

<p>
<hr size=4 width=75%>
<div class=footer>
<!--#include virtual="../include/footer_small.html" -->
Last updated 24 Mar 2006

</body>
</html>
