<!-- CGNS Steering Committee Minutes -->

<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css">
<link href="minutes.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<title> CGNS Steering Committee Minutes </title>
</head>

<body text="#000000" bgcolor="#FFFFFF" link="#0000EE" vlink="#551A8B" alink="#FF0000">

<a href="#endnav"><img src="../blank.gif" border=0 alt="Skip navigation links"></a>
<small>
<center>
(<a href="../index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Documentation&nbsp;Home&nbsp;Page</b></a>)
(<a href="../charter/index.html"><b>Steering&nbsp;Committee&nbsp;Charter</b></a>)
(<a href="../overview/index.html"><b>Overview&nbsp;and&nbsp;Entry-Level&nbsp;Document</b></a>)
(<a href="../user/index.html"><b>A&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide&nbsp;to&nbsp;CGNS</b></a>)
(<a href="../sids/index.html"><b>Standard&nbsp;Interface&nbsp;Data&nbsp;Structures</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-ADF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap_hdf/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-HDF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../midlevel/index.html"><b>Mid-Level&nbsp;Library</b></a>)
(<a href="../adf/index.html"><b>ADF&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide</b></a>)
(<a href="../cgnstools/index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Tools&nbsp;and&nbsp;Utilities</b></a>)
</center>
</small>
<a name="endnav"></a>

<h1>CGNS Steering Committee</h1>

<h2>Telecon Minutes</h2>

7 December 2000<br>
2:00pm Eastern Time<br><br>

<p>
The meeting was called to order at 2:00 Eastern time.
There were 18 attendees, <a href="#attendees">listed below</a>.

<p>
The minutes of the 25 October meeting were reviewed and approved as
posted on the web site.

<ul>
<li> <b>Steering Committee Nominations</b> - There are currently 13
     'voting' organizations on the Steering Committee. There have been
     3 nominations to be added: Alexandre Corjon from Aerospatiale
     Matra Airbus, Greg Power from USAF/AEDC/Sverdrup and John Chawner
     from Pointwise. After some discussion, it was decided to recommend
     increasing the number of voting organizations called for in
     the Charter from 15 to 16. Bob Bush will prepare a motion for
     the January meeting that will increase the number of voting
     organizations to 16 and put forward the 3 nominations.  We will
     re-address the limit for voting members each year, as the need
     arises.
<br><br>
<li> <b>Logo</b> - John Chawner discussed the proposed
     logos developed by the design firm The DPC Group
     (<i>http://www.dpcgroup.com/</i>).
     This firm has offered to create a logo for no cost, provided we
     acknowledge them on our web site and where appropriate, and provide
     a letter acknowledging the contribution. There was some concern
     about the duration of any commitment we make due to the voluntary
     and transient nature of our organization, and the potential to
     forget the commitment over a long time period.  The suggestion was
     to limit the duration to 1-3 years, subject to negotiation. There
     was general agreement that the designs without the 'swan' were
     preferred (reluctantly by some who remember the 'ugly duckling'
     days), and to change the tag line to "CFD Data Standard" for
     clarity. There was also concern about gray-scale representation
     of the 'swirl'. John Chawner will coordinate with the design
     firm on revisions and present refined choices at the January
     meeting. We do not feel there is sufficient need to register as a
     trademark for now. We anticipate a vote to accept a final design in
     January, and subsequent posting and publicity on the Web site and
     on documentation.
<br><br>
<li> <b>ISO Status</b> - Ray Cosner was not available for the telecon,
     but sent this summary of the status:

     <blockquote>
     <tt>
     I reviewed our plans on Oct 17 with the ISO Change Management Board,
     which is the group within ISO responsible for overall scheduling and
     coordination of standards proposals within the area of Engineering
     Analysis Tools. I reviewed the current state, and indicated we were
     planning to present both a New Work Item (Gate 2) and a Committee
     Draft (Gate 3) at, hopefully, the next meeting in February. That's an
     aggressive date, and it easily could slip to the following meeting
     in June. The review generally focused on the scope of the proposed
     standard, the plans for the next year, and the current degree of
     acceptance of the CGNS starting point. This review went well, and the
     Chair remarked that we were especially well prepared.
     
     <p>
     In meetings of the ISO Working Group for Engineering Analysis on Oct
     16-19, there were no issues with the current content, and it looks like
     Sweden (Volvo) is back on board as a supporter. However, the Chair of
     this Working Group (Keith Hunten, Lockheed Martin, Fort Worth) expressed
     an opinion that all the engineering analysis standards should be grouped
     in one AP, and that we should not be planning on a separate AP. This
     is a philosophical point, and as we are the second standard to come
     forward in this area we are the lightning rod for resolution of this
     organizational issue.
     
     <p>
     Up to now, ISO standards all use ASCII data storage. Obviously, that
     is impractical for CFD data. Therefore, we will have to take on the
     additional task of defining and "selling" an agreed ISO standard
     mechanism for binary data storage. CGNS-ADF obviously is an attractive
     answer, but there is a lot of interest in the ISO community in HDF. I
     am trying to increase my knowledge of HDF now. If any members of this
     CGNS committee have detailed knowledge of HDF, I would appreciate
     getting your comments as to its strengths and weaknesses in storing CFD
     data. ISO will insist on a single approach to binary storage for any
     application, so I am concerned that achieving consensus on this point
     could end up being a significant diversion of our effort.
     
     <p>
     We will hold a four-day meeting in Seattle, Dec 11-14, to continue
     the development of the ISO standard for fluid dynamics and associated
     sub-elements such as mathematical representations and binary
     storage. Keith Hunten will attend, and we hope to finally resolve
     all issues associated with the organization and structure of this
     standard. The Boeing preference is to have a stand-alone AP for fluid
     dynamics, but the overarching goal is to get all parties to agree on the
     course. Without consensus as to how the fluid dynamics standard relates
     to other ISO standards, we cannot expect to pass Gate 3. We are bringing
     in a consultant from UK (David Leal), with whom we have worked before,
     to help us with details of the structure and content of the actual
     written standard. The chief Boeing information modeler, Peter Wilson,
     will participate in all four days, as I will.  Wilson, by the way, has
     written a number of books on ISO standards and information modeling
     (you can review his books at Amazon.Com). As an outcome, at the end of
     the meeting we expect to have agreement among all parties as to how the
     standard will be organized, and we expect to make substantial progress
     in the actual definition and documentation of the standard. I will
     report on the progress at the meeting of the CGNS committee in Reno, in
     January.
     </tt></blockquote>

     <p>
     There was some discussion, initiated by Michel Delanaye, on
     the need to define the binary format for the data. There was
     general consensus that the CGNS committee should be primarily
     concerned with the intellectual content of the data - i.e. the SIDS
     information. The actual implementation and representation in binary
     format may evolve as the technology evolves (e.g. Oracle database,
     HDF, XML, others). The CGNS committee does not have the expertise
     to define the binary standard, and we do not wish to take a stand
     on what the appropriate binary format should be. However, it is
     recognized that ISO does not currently support binary data, and
     ASCII data is not viable for CFD data. Thus the ISO working group
     may be forced to define a standard, and this definition could hold
     up adoption of the AP on Fluid Dynamics. We would like to encourage
     the ISO working group, but keep the focus of the CGNS committee on
     the SIDS content.
<br><br>
<li> <b>Documentation</b> - Charlie Towne reported that the SIDS V2,
     Beta 2 is on the web.  Rather than combining the SIDS and File
     Mapping documents, we are now looking at having separate documents,
     but closely cross-linked on-line. The Draft User's Guide is on the
     web, no comments to date. Steve Legensky is working the paper, and
     has collected survey results. We requested a summary of the results
     at Reno.
<br><br>
<li> <b>User Support</b> - There was discussion of the need for 1/2 to 1
     person effort as Software Focal Point. Diane Poirier has provided
     this support in the past, sponsored by ICEM-CFD Engineering. First
     the committee wants to recognize and express its appreciation
     for this support for the past 3 years. ICEM will be scaling back
     this support and we need to define alternative ways to provide
     this support. Several optionsn were considered: cycling through
     various organizations on a 1 year basis, collecting dues from
     Steering Committee Members to pay for this support, and various
     combinations. This should be a prime focus for discussion at the
     January meeting.
<br><br>
<li> <b>Extensions</b> - Michel Delanaye discussed the Hierarchical
     structures proposal, and the response from M. Aftosmis. The
     points in the response were well-taken, and further refinement
     and participation by other organizations is encouraged. One
     general point of discussion was trying to keep the standard
     restrictive vs. general with many possibilities to check. We are
     leaning toward restrictive with applications responsible for
     re-constructing data. In this case, it may lead to the requirement
     to store the history of refinements, so there are still issues
     to be worked out. Michel Delanaye will try again to reinvigorate
     the discussion, including more timely responses and broader
     participation (e.g. Aftosmis, Fluent, ADAPCO).
     
     <p>
     Other extensions are in implementation for V2, or
     preparation. Diane will try to get the Chemistry extension
     implemented for V2, but it may slip beyond the freeze date.  There
     is also a new proposal for <tt>UserDefinedArrays</tt> which would
     be valid children of many nodes. We will discuss these issues at
     the January meeting.
<br><br>
<li> <b>Additional Items</b> - The January Meeting is currently
     scheduled for Tuesday night of the Reno conference. Due to
     potential conflicts, we have altered the start time to 8:00. Bob
     Bush will attempt to notify AIAA and have the change published. We
     will also try to post a sign indicating the change. Current agenda
     items include:
     <br><br>
     <ul>
     <li> Steering Committee Changes
     <li> Logo disposition
     <li> CGNS 2.0 release sequence
     <li> Survey Results - Legensky
     <li> Developer Focal Point
     <li> Extensions Status
     </ul>
</ul>

<a name="attendees"></a>
<h2>Attendees</h2>

<table cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0>
<tr valign=baseline><td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Bob Bush<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>UTRC
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Rumsey<td>
   <td>NASA Langley
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Dave Schowalter<td>
   <td>Fluent
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Don Roberts<td>
   <td>Ametec
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Charlie Towne<td>
   <td>NASA Glenn
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Dan Dominik<td>
   <td>Boeing
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Diane Poirier<td>
   <td>ICEM CFD Engineering
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Francis Enomoto<td>
   <td>NASA Ames
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>David Edwards<td>
   <td>Intelligent Light
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Doug McCarthy<td>
   <td>Boeing Commercial
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Todd Michal<td>
   <td>Boeing Phantom Works
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Michel Delanaye<td>
   <td>Numeca
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>John Chawner<td>
   <td>Pointwise
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Kevin Mack<td>
   <td>ADAPCO
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Theresa Babrauckas<td>
   <td>NASA Glenn
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Bill Jones<td>
   <td>NASA Langley
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Armen Darian<td>
   <td>Boeing Space
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Ed Hall<td>
   <td>Rolls-Royce-Allison
</table>

<p>
<hr size=4 width=75%>
<div class=footer>
<!--#include virtual="../include/footer_small.html" -->
Last updated 4 Feb 2002

</body>
</html>

