<!-- CGNS Steering Committee Minutes -->

<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css">
<link href="minutes.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<title> CGNS Steering Committee Minutes </title>
</head>

<body text="#000000" bgcolor="#FFFFFF" link="#0000EE" vlink="#551A8B" alink="#FF0000">

<a href="#endnav"><img src="../blank.gif" border=0 alt="Skip navigation links"></a>
<small>
<center>
(<a href="../index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Documentation&nbsp;Home&nbsp;Page</b></a>)
(<a href="../charter/index.html"><b>Steering&nbsp;Committee&nbsp;Charter</b></a>)
(<a href="../overview/index.html"><b>Overview&nbsp;and&nbsp;Entry-Level&nbsp;Document</b></a>)
(<a href="../user/index.html"><b>A&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide&nbsp;to&nbsp;CGNS</b></a>)
(<a href="../sids/index.html"><b>Standard&nbsp;Interface&nbsp;Data&nbsp;Structures</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-ADF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap_hdf/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-HDF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../midlevel/index.html"><b>Mid-Level&nbsp;Library</b></a>)
(<a href="../adf/index.html"><b>ADF&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide</b></a>)
(<a href="../cgnstools/index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Tools&nbsp;and&nbsp;Utilities</b></a>)
</center>
</small>
<a name="endnav"></a>

<h1>CGNS Steering Committee</h1>

<h2>Telecon Minutes</h2>

4 October 2005<br>
11:00 AM Eastern Time

<p>
<ol>
<li> The meeting was called to order at 11:05 AM.  There were
     <a href="#attendees">9 attendees</a>, listed below.
<p>
<li> The minutes of the <a href="telecon_aug05.html">2 Aug 2005
     meeting</a> were approved as posted on the web site.
<p>
<li> Regarding the SIDS Ballot for the AIAA Recommended Practice: we did
     not achieve a 2/3 response from voting members, so AIAA did not
     pass the ballot measure! This indicates a problem we are facing
     on the committee: several members are no longer active.  <u>Rumsey
     will contact all current steering committee members and ask for
     commitment; no response will result in vote for removal from
     steering committee.</u>
<p>
<li> Status of previous action items:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Towne will upgrade Poinot's SIDS-to-HDF5 documentation with
          2.4 additions and post (along with other 2.4 docs) after V2.4
          comes online.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> done
          </ul>
     <li> Wedan will make change in CGNS HDF5 software so viewer can
          read (see) character strings in the HDF5 files.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> done
          </ul>
     <li> Wedan will complete changes for V2.4 and will announce when
          ready.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> done
          </ul>
     <li> Allmaras will write explicit documentation, for addition to
          the SIDS, describing face-based storage and providing explicit
          examples for using the method, and will send to Rumsey and
          Michal for review.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> not done yet; <u>action item carries</u>
          </ul>
     <li> Wedan will change the MLL to return element list instead of
          point list when appropriate.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> determined to be unimportant; action item dropped
          </ul>
     <li> Rumsey and Poinot to coordinate CGNS Panel Discussion and
          possible tutorial for AIAA's June 2006 meeting in San
          Francisco.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> ongoing, with Hauser also helping to coordinate; status
               given below; <u>action item carries</u>
          </ul>
     <li> As soon as V2.4 comes on line, Towne will bundle up V2.3
          documentation for Wedan to post.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> done
          </ul>
     <li> Norris will try to work with the (currently commented)
          Rind-for-unstructured fixes and see if they meet his needs.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> done; they are working very well
          </ul>
     <li> Wedan will write documentation for SIDS on
          Rind-for-unstructured and send to Rumsey and Norris.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> not done yet; <u>action item carries (docs needed for MLL)</u>
          </ul>
     <li> Poinot and Wedan will work to resolve issue of "link of links"
          problem with our HDF5 implementation.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> this item depends on changes in HDF-5 (Koziol of NCSA);
               this item moved to <a href="#HDF5_todo">Tentative to-do
               list</a> in association with HDF-5 switchover. <u>Rumsey
               will contact Koziol to learn status of HDF-5 beta
               implementation of "external links" for helping to solve
               "link of links" problem.</u>
          </ul>
     <li> Wedan will change the license in the software and on the
          website to zlib, and will forward appropriate wording to Towne.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> done
          </ul>
     <li> Towne will change the license in the documentation
          (<a href="../charter/index.html">Charter</a> and anywhere else
          it appears).
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> done
          </ul>
     <li> Wedan will update the <i>www.cgns.org</i>
          webpage describing
          CGNStalk.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> done
          </ul>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> San Francisco AIAA meeting
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Current plan calls for 2 major CGNS activities at this
          meeting: a Panel Discussion and an evening CGNS tutorial
     <li> Panel discussion will occur under the auspices of the Fluid
          Dynamics Technical Committee.  It will occur during the
          regular sessions, and will be titled something like:  "CGNS
          Practical Applications in CFD".  We will have 5-7 Panelists,
          who spend 15 minutes (each) making a presentation (no paper),
          then we open the floor for an hour or so of general discussion
          and questions at the end. Poinot has several possible panel
          members he has been working to get a commitment from; also
          Michal &amp; Hann volunteered (likely); also Wedan could
          serve.
     <li> The CGNS tutorial will probably occur in the evening. We will
          be asking for steering committee members to volunteer to help
          with this event (perhaps contributing to the presentations). A
          tentative outline for this is (2.5 hrs):
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Brief intro &amp; overview (10 min)
          <li> Tutorial on general use of the library, compiling,
               setting up, use of mid-level calls in CFD codes, etc
               (20 min)
          <li> Tutorial for simple structured grids, flow solns, &amp;
               BCs (30 min)
          <li> Tutorial for use with unstructured grids (30 min)
          <li> Advanced topics TBD (30 min)
          <li> More advanced topics/Discussion/questions (30 min)
          </ul>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Open Items (<a href="#item15">number 15 below</a>):
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Regarding <a href="#HDF5_todo">HDF-5 "to do" list</a>,
          <u>Rumsey will review the HDF-5 "to do" list and revise if
          necessary</u>
     <li> Regarding the issue of resolving differences between SIDS and
          ISO/STEP, this is still tabled for the forseeable future
     <li> Regarding certification process:
          (a) <a href="../cgnstools/adfviewer/index.html">adfviewer</a>
          has a compliance checker that is continually undergoing
          improvements; (b) another tool, available through PyCGNS and
          built on XML grammar, is in need of testing and approval of
          the grammar by the steering committee. <u>Poinot will update
          the <a href="http://cgns-python.berlios.de/">PyCGNS
          website</a> <img src="../external.png" alt="external link">
          with regard to the XML compliance tool</u>, then
          volunteers on the steering committee will be asked to help
          evaluate it.
     <li> Regarding <tt>PYRA</tt> element needed for unstructured grids,
          this change needs to wait for Version 3.0, because it changes
          the enums, and forward compatibility is lost in a major way.
     <li> Regarding Rind for unstructured: this has been done; item
          removed from list
     </ol>
<p>
<li> ISO/STEP
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Hunten sent some planning documents on the AP 209E2 work.
          [See "AP209E2 Initial Module Breakdown, V1.1"
          (<a href="attachments/AP209E2_Module-AOs.1.1.html">HTML</a>,
          <a href="attachments/AP209E2_Module-AOs.1.1.pdf">PDF</a>),
          and "AP209E2 Planning Model"
          (<a href="attachments/AP209E2_Planning_Model.1.2.html">HTML</a>,
          <a href="attachments/AP209E2_Planning_Model.1.2.pdf">PDF</a>).]
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Documentation issues and CGNStalk issues:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> <a href="../index.html">V2.4</a> is available now
     <li> <u>Rumsey will update <a href="../overview/elements.html">Elements
          and Documentation</a> section of the <i>CGNS Overview and
          Entry-Level Document</i> to reflect option of using HDF-5, and
          send to Towne to post.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Software status/discussion:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> CGNSTalk question about
          <a href="../midlevel/descriptor.html#descriptor"><tt>cg_descriptor_read</tt></a>
          allocating memory but not deallocating, whereas all
          other routines make user allocate memory himself. <u>Wedan
          will look into the issue of memory allocation for
          <tt>cg_descriptor_read</tt>.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> HDF-5 status/discussion:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> <a href="#HDF_policy">Draft policy statement regarding
          HDF-5</a> was discussed.  Committee members decided it would
          be a good idea to post this conspicuously, as a tentative
          policy statement, to allow time for feedback, and to give
          vendors a heads-up. <u>Wedan will post HDF-5 policy statement
          on website, and include link to
          <a href="http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/">HDF-5 site</a>
          <img src="../external.png" alt="external link">.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Extensions status/discussion:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Issue of mismatched abutting interfaces: the idea was raised
          in CGNSTalk about having <tt>InterpolantsDonor</tt> be an
          optional node, rather than required.  It is possible (for
          mismatched interfaces) that a user may want to include some
          information, but leave details as code-specific information
          rather than complying fully to the CGNS standard. <u>Rumsey
          will look into the issue of having <tt>InterpolantsDonor</tt>
          be an optional node for
          <a href="../sids/cnct.html#GridConnectivity"><tt>GridConnectivity</tt></a>,
          and will respond to the committee about it.</u>
     <li> Issue of need for source terms for internal BCs: Poinot found
          a way to handle this, but it brings up the issue in general
          that we may need to expand the <a href="../user/index.html">User's
          Guide</a> to help show how to handle specific circumstances
          such as this. <u>Poinot will send Rumsey a copy of his tree to
          show how he handled source terms for internal BCs.</u> This
          issue in general is being added as an "Open Item" for the
          future.  Perhaps after the San Francisco meeting we will have
          additional needs for addition to the <i>User's Guide</i>.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Other issues:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Poinot recently presented a CGNS paper at a rotorcraft
          conference. <u>Poinot will e-mail a copy of his paper to Towne
          for posting.</u>
     <li> Committee decided to not hold another telecon prior to Reno.
          Thus, the next meeting will be face-to-face at the Reno AIAA
          meeting, Jan 11, 2006; 7PM (Wednesday).
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Meeting was adjourned at 12:10 PM.
<p>
<li> Summary of <b><u>action items</u></b>:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Rumsey will contact all current steering committee members and
          ask for commitment; no response will result in vote for removal
          from steering committee.
     <li> Allmaras will write explicit documentation, for addition to
          the SIDS, describing face-based storage and providing explicit
          examples for using the method, and will send to Rumsey and
          Michal for review.
     <li> Rumsey, Poinot, and Hauser to coordinate CGNS Panel Discussion
          and possible tutorial for AIAA's June 2006 meeting in San
          Francisco.
     <li> Wedan will write documentation for SIDS and MLL as appropriate
          on Rind-for-unstructured and send to Rumsey, Norris, and Towne.
     <li> Rumsey will contact Koziol to learn status of HDF-5 beta
          implementation of "external links" for helping to solve "link of
          links" problem.
     <li> Rumsey will review the <a href="#HDF5_todo">HDF-5 "to do"
          list</a> and revise if necessary
     <li> Poinot will update the
          <a href="http://cgns-python.berlios.de/">PyCGNS website</a>
          <img src="../external.png" alt="external link"> with regard to
          the XML compliance tool
     <li> Rumsey will update <a href="../overview/elements.html">Elements
          and Documentation</a> section of the <i>CGNS Overview and
          Entry-Level Document</i> to reflect option of using HDF-5, and
          send to Towne to post.
     <li> Wedan will look into the issue of memory allocation for
          <a href="../midlevel/descriptor.html#descriptor"><tt>cg_descriptor_read</tt></a>.
     <li> Wedan will post <a href="#HDF_policy">HDF-5 policy statement</a>
          on website, and include link to
          <a href="http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/">HDF-5 site</a>
          <img src="../external.png" alt="external link">.
     <li> Rumsey will look into the issue of having <tt>InterpolantsDonor</tt>
          be an optional node for
          <a href="../sids/cnct.html#GridConnectivity"><tt>GridConnectivity</tt></a>,
          and will respond to the committee about it.
     <li> Poinot will send Rumsey a copy of his tree to show how he
          handled source terms for internal BCs.
     <li> Poinot will e-mail a copy of his paper to Towne for posting.
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="item15"></a>
<li> Summary of <b><u>open items</u></b> from prior meetings (these are
     different from action items, in that they are open or unresolved
     issues that we want to keep track of, but there are no specific
     actions required of anyone at this point in time):
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Resolve <a href="#HDF5_todo">HDF-5 "to-do" list</a>.
     <li> Eventually resolve any differences between SIDS and ISO/STEP.
     <li> Need for official certification process (test for compliance)
     <li> Need to add Karman's additional <tt>PYRA</tt> element type to
          allowed list (in software and in SIDS)
     <li> Need for additional specific examples in <i>User's Guide</i>,
          such as how to handle internal BCs
     </ol>
</ol>

<a name="attendees"></a>
<h2>Attendees</h2>

<table cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0>
<tr valign=baseline><td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Armen Darian<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Boeing - Rocketdyne
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Richard Hann<td>
   <td>Ansys / CFX
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Thomas Hauser<td>
   <td>Utah State
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Todd Michal<td>
   <td>Boeing - St. Louis
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>John Norris<td>
   <td>Ctr for Sim of Advanced Rockets (U of Illinois)
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Marc Poinot<td>
   <td>ONERA
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Rumsey<td>
   <td>NASA Langley
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Charlie Towne<td>
   <td>NASA Glenn
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Bruce Wedan<td>
   <td>Ansys / ICEM CFD
</table>

<a name="HDF5_todo"></a>
<h2>Tentative to-do list in association with HDF-5 switchover</h2>

<ul>
<li> Complete and test parallel implementation
<li> Complete and test API capability to automatically detect and switch
     between ADF and HDF-5 (transparent to user?)
<li> Assess/minimize impact on software vendors using CGNS
<li> Make changes recommended by HDF-5 to improve usability with HDF-5
     (e.g., character strings as opposed to character arrays)
<li> Assess compression capability of HDF-5
<li> CGNS configure scripts will need to be modified to check for
     availability of appropriate HDF-5 libraries.
<li> Possibly add flag-based options when opening CGNS files.  For
     example: "follow links" vs. "don't follow links"; "use ADF" vs. "use
     HDF-5"; "translate file automatically" vs. "leave the file as-is";
     "compress" vs. "don't compress".
<li> Look into eliminating need for ID's from MLL
<li> Resolve "link-of-links" problem: will require HDF-5 fix by NCSA
     (beta implementation of "external links" is in the works)
</ul>

<a name="HDF_policy"></a>
<h2>Draft CGNS Policy Statement regarding HDF-5</h2>

<p>
The CGNS implementation of SIDS, so-called MLL, was originally built
using a file format called ADF (Advanced Data Format).  This format was
based on a common file format system previously in use at McDonnell
Douglas.  The ADF has worked extremely well, requiring little repair,
upgrade, or maintenance over the last decade.

<p>
However, ADF does not have parallel or compression capability, and does
not have the support and tools HDF5 offers.  Also, HDF5, supported by
the National Center for Supercomputing Applications (NCSA), has rapidly
grown to become a world-wide format standard for storing scientific
data.  HDF5 has parallel capability as well as a broader support base
than ADF.

<p>
Therefore, the CGNS Steering Committee has made the decision to adopt
HDF5 as the default (official) data storage mechanism.  We are currently
in the process of making the switch.  In doing so, however, we have
learned that there are some issues associated with usage of HDF5: it has
slower I/O for files with many (thousands of) nodes, and its file sizes
tend to be significantly larger than ADF files in general.  These issues
make the switch more complicated, but we have decided to count on NCSA
to continue to improve HDF5 and hopefully eliminate the problems at some
point in the future.

<p>
We have also learned that it is possible to easily support both ADF and
HDF5 formats simultaneously, giving the user the capability to choose
between them.

<p>
Therefore, we have decided to continue forward with the "switch", with
the following as our goal:

<p>
The CGNS Steering Committee considers HDF5 to be its official,
recommended storage format.  However, ADF will continue to be available
for use, with the CGNS mid-level library capable of (1) using either
format and (2) translating back and forth between the two.

<p>
<hr size=4 width=75%>
<div class=footer>
<!--#include virtual="../include/footer_small.html" -->
Last updated 5 Oct 2005

</body>
</html>
