<!-- CGNS Steering Committee Minutes -->

<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css">
<link href="minutes.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<title> CGNS Steering Committee Minutes </title>
</head>

<body text="#000000" bgcolor="#FFFFFF" link="#0000EE" vlink="#551A8B" alink="#FF0000">

<a href="#endnav"><img src="../blank.gif" border=0 alt="Skip navigation links"></a>
<small>
<center>
(<a href="../index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Documentation&nbsp;Home&nbsp;Page</b></a>)
(<a href="../charter/index.html"><b>Steering&nbsp;Committee&nbsp;Charter</b></a>)
(<a href="../overview/index.html"><b>Overview&nbsp;and&nbsp;Entry-Level&nbsp;Document</b></a>)
(<a href="../user/index.html"><b>A&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide&nbsp;to&nbsp;CGNS</b></a>)
(<a href="../sids/index.html"><b>Standard&nbsp;Interface&nbsp;Data&nbsp;Structures</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-ADF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap_hdf/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-HDF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../midlevel/index.html"><b>Mid-Level&nbsp;Library</b></a>)
(<a href="../adf/index.html"><b>ADF&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide</b></a>)
(<a href="../cgnstools/index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Tools&nbsp;and&nbsp;Utilities</b></a>)
</center>
</small>
<a name="endnav"></a>

<h1>CGNS Steering Committee</h1>

<h2>Telecon Minutes</h2>

16 Mar 2005<br>
11:00 AM Eastern Time

<p>
<ol>
<li> The meeting was called to order at 11:05 AM.  There were
     <a href="#attendees">14 attendees</a>, listed below.
<p>
<li> The minutes of the <a href="meeting_jan05.html">12 January 2005
     meeting</a> were approved as posted on the web site.
<p>
<li> Status of previous action items:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Hauser will provide Rumsey a list of issues that need to be
          discussed with the NCSA (HDF5) people.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Not done. <u>Action item carries.</u>
          </ul>
     <li> Poinot will work on completing SIDS-to-HDF5 documentation;
          Wedan, Rumsey, Towne, Koziol will be reviewers. Will need to
          eventually incorporate new extensions (see (d)).
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Status unknown. <u>Action item carries.</u>
          </ul>
     <li> Michal will check with other Boeing people to see if they can
          test EM extension.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Status unknown. <u>Action item carries.</u>
          </ul>
     <li> Towne will complete and post draft documentation on new
          extensions.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Done.
          </ul>
     <li> Rumsey will contact Keith Hunten of Lockheed Martin.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Done via e-mail. Merge of FD standard with existing ISO
               standard for finite element solid mechanics will be
               started in next few months.
          </ul>
     <li> Rumsey will contact Koziol to make him aware of issue of
          larger size (factor 2-3) of HDF5 files.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Done.
          </ul>
     <li> Wedan will make change in CGNS HDF5 software so viewer can
          read (see) character strings in the HDF5 files.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Not done. <u>Action item carries.</u>
          </ul>
     <li> Wedan will modify V2.4beta to include HDF5 as an option (at
          compile time), then will announce it.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Mostly done; but a few small issues remain. <u>Wedan will
               complete changes for V2.4 and will announce when ready.</u>
          </ul>
     <li> Wedan will look into change required to allow Rind data for
          unstructured, and will contact Rumsey about it.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Done. The change is easy to do, but it is a problem
               because it causes loss of backward compatability.
               Discussion below.
          </ul>
     <li> Michal will write a first draft proposal to handle polyhedral
          cells.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Not done. <u>Action item carries.</u>
          </ul>
     <li> Karman will write up description of need for a particular
          unstructured type and send to Rumsey.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Done. Rumsey passed a request to CGNSTalk to ask for a
               volunteer to write up a formal definition, but got no
               responses.
          </ul>
     <li> Rumsey will look into possibility for CGNS user's meeting in
          Reno 2006.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Done. It is easy to sign up for a room. We need to define
               what is needed, how long it should last, etc.
          </ul>
     <li> Hauser will send PDF of his CGNS Reno paper to Towne to post.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Done.
          </ul>
     <li> Poinot will send PDF of his CGNS Reno paper to Towne to post.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Done.
          </ul>
     <li> Poinot will obtain PDF of Iepan's CGNS Reno paper and will
          forward to Towne to post.
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Done.
          </ul>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Vice-Chair position:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> It was suggested that the committee members vote via e-mail.
          <u>Rumsey will send a request for a vote via e-mail.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> ISO status/discussion:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> No change of status.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Documentation issues and CGNStalk issues:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Status of AIAA balloting process is unknown.  <u>Rumsey will
          continue to try to contact Day and Cawley.</u>
     <li> Recent corrections to documentation:
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> SIDS examples 7d and 7e
          <li> MLL doc for <tt>ConversionScale</tt>
          </ul>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Software status/discussion:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Wedan brought up a user's concern with the current
          license (GNU Lesser General Public License): that it may
          contain legal loopholes. He suggested two alternatives
          (<i>www.opensource.org/licenses/zlib-license.php</i> or
          <i>www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php</i>). <u>Wedan and
          Hann will discuss off-line, consult with legal people, and
          make decision.</u>
     <li> Wedan implemented large file support (&gt; 2 Gig) for 32-bit;
          will be available in Version 2.4.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> HDF-5 status/discussion:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Discussion that we will want to keep ADF capability available,
          even after we move more heavily into usage of HDF-5.
     <li> Although Version 2.4 will be either-or, we may eventually
          want to be able to have one executable work with both ADF and
          HDF-5. Wedan said this would be possible with some relatively
          minor code modifications.
     <li> Status of  problems with HDF-5 is unchanged:
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> HDF-5 has slower I/O when thousands of nodes.
          <li> The HDF-5 version of the test files were 2-3 times larger
               than the ADF files Discussion group is:
               <i>hdf5cgns@ncsa.uiuc.edu</i>.
          </ul>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Extensions status/discussion:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Need for minor addition/changes to element type definitions
          was discussed.  The software change will be easy. The main
          thing needed is formal documentation. <u>Karman agreed to
          modify existing SIDS doc on element type definitions and send
          to Towne.</u>
     <li> UIUC proposal to modify Rind data for use with unstructured
          data was discussed. The software change is relatively simple,
          but the change is not forward compatable: if put into V2.4,
          then earlier versions of the software would not be able to
          read the V2.4 file.  Several options were discussed:
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> hold off on change until Version 3.0 (major releases do
               not have to be forward compatable)
          <li> put in, and provide data stripper
          <li> create a new URind node 
          </ul>
          It was finally decided to leave this capability out of Version
          2.4 (commented), but Wedan will make it available for anyone
          who wants to try it (Norris of UIUC agreed to try it). We will
          revisit this issue during the next Telecon.

     </ol>
<p>
<li> Other issues:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Review status of open items:
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> Item (a) from list was discussed (eliminate the
               <tt>Pointlist/Range</tt> + <tt>CellCenter</tt>
               possibility - and thus remove the need for
               <tt>GridLocation</tt> under <tt>BC_t</tt>.  Next
               major release of API will need to automatically make
               the alteration, transparent to the user.) <u>Wedan will
               change the MLL to return element list instead of point
               list when appropriate.</u>  For the foreseeable future
               the <tt>PointList/Range</tt> + <tt>CellCenter</tt>
               possibility will be retained, as there does not seem to
               be a driving reason to go through the trouble to remove
               it. This item is being removed from the open item list.
          <li> Item (c) from the list (need consistency
               between <tt>DimensionalUnits</tt> and
               <tt>DimensionalExponents</tt>) is being removed from the
               list, because Wedan has already resolved this.
          </ul>
     <li> CGNS user's meeting:
          <ul type=disc>
          <li> tentative time for this will be at Reno 2006
          <li> max of 1.5 hours would be appropriate (evening meeting)
          <li> change title to "Introduction to CGNS", use it as an
               outreach activity
          <li> give intro, and base it on the User's Guide, but also
               introduce attendees to all of CGNS's functionality
          <li> <u>Rumsey volunteered to work toward putting something
               together, and to identify others to help.</u>
          </ul>
     <li> Wedan recently gave a talk about CGNS to an EM audience at
          NASA Ames.
     <li> Next telecon: sometime in May.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Meeting was adjourned at 12:20 PM.
<p>
<li> Summary of <b><u>action items</u></b>:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Hauser will provide a list of issues that need to be discussed
          with the NCSA (HDF5) people.
     <li> Poinot will work on completing SIDS-to-HDF5 documentation;
          Wedan, Rumsey, Towne, Koziol will be reviewers. Need to
          incorporate new extensions.
     <li> Michal will check with other Boeing people to see if they can
          test EM extension.
     <li> Wedan will make change in CGNS HDF5 software so viewer can
          read (see) character strings in the HDF5 files.
     <li> Wedan will complete changes for V2.4 and will announce when
          ready.
     <li> Michal will write a first draft proposal to handle polyhedral
          cells.
     <li> Rumsey will send a request for a vote for vice-chair via
          e-mail.
     <li> Rumsey will contact Day and Cawley about AIAA balloting
          status.
     <li> Wedan and Hann will discuss license issue off-line, consult
          with legal people, and make decision.
     <li> Karman agreed to modify existing SIDS doc on element type
          definitions and send to Towne.
     <li> Wedan will change the MLL to return element list instead of
          point list when appropriate.
     <li> Rumsey volunteered to plan "Intro to CGNS" for Reno 2006, and
          to identify others to help.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Summary of <b><u>open items</u></b> from prior meetings (these are
     different from action items, in that they are open or unresolved
     issues that we want to keep track of, but there are no specific
     actions required of anyone at this point in time):
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Resolve <a href="#HDF5_todo">HDF-5 "to-do" list</a>.
     <li> Eventually resolve any differences between SIDS and ISO/STEP.
     <li> Question of need (or preference) to have alphanumeric sorting
          of everything (like is currently done for zones)
     <li> Need for developing certification process (official test for
          compliance)
     </ol>
</ol>

<a name="attendees"></a>
<h2>Attendees</h2>

<table cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0>
<tr valign=baseline><td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Steve Allmaras<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Boeing
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Juan Alonso<td>
   <td>Stanford
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Bob Bush<td>
   <td>Pratt &amp; Whitney
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Armen Darian<td>
   <td>Boeing - Rocketdyne
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Dan Dominik<td>
   <td>Boeing - Rocketdyne
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Bob Fiedler<td>
   <td>UIUC
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Richard Hann<td>
   <td>Ansys/CFX
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Steve Karman<td>
   <td>UT Chattanooga
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>John Norris<td>
   <td>UIUC
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Rumsey<td>
   <td>NASA Langley
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Charlie Towne<td>
   <td>NASA Glenn
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Ken Wall<td>
   <td>Intelligent Light
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Edwin Van der Weide<td>
   <td>Stanford
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Bruce Wedan<td>
   <td>ICEM CFD
</table>

<a name="HDF5_todo"></a>
<h2>Tentative to-do list in association with HDF-5 switchover</h2>

<ul>
<li> Complete and test parallel implementation
<li> Complete and test API capability to automatically detect and switch
     between ADF and HDF-5 (transparent to user?)
<li> Assess/minimize impact on software vendors using CGNS
<li> Make changes recommended by HDF-5 to improve usability with HDF-5
     (e.g., character strings as opposed to character arrays)
<li> HDF-5 must fix "creation tracking"
<li> Assess compression capability of HDF-5
<li> Create SIDS-to-HDF-5 documentation
<li> CGNS configure scripts will need to be modified to check for
     availability of appropriate HDF-5 libraries.
<li> Possibly add flag-based options when opening CGNS files.  For
     example: "follow links" vs. "don't follow links"; "use ADF" vs. "use
     HDF-5"; "translate file automatically" vs. "leave the file as-is";
     "compress" vs. "don't compress".
<li> Look into eliminating need for ID's from MLL
</ul>

<p>
<hr size=4 width=75%>
<div class=footer>
<!--#include virtual="../include/footer_small.html" -->
Last updated 22 Mar 2005

</body>
</html>
