<!-- CGNS Steering Committee Minutes -->

<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css">
<link href="minutes.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<title> CGNS Steering Committee Minutes </title>
</head>

<body text="#000000" bgcolor="#FFFFFF" link="#0000EE" vlink="#551A8B" alink="#FF0000">

<a href="#endnav"><img src="../blank.gif" border=0 alt="Skip navigation links"></a>
<small>
<center>
(<a href="../index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Documentation&nbsp;Home&nbsp;Page</b></a>)
(<a href="../charter/index.html"><b>Steering&nbsp;Committee&nbsp;Charter</b></a>)
(<a href="../overview/index.html"><b>Overview&nbsp;and&nbsp;Entry-Level&nbsp;Document</b></a>)
(<a href="../user/index.html"><b>A&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide&nbsp;to&nbsp;CGNS</b></a>)
(<a href="../sids/index.html"><b>Standard&nbsp;Interface&nbsp;Data&nbsp;Structures</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-ADF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap_hdf/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-HDF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../midlevel/index.html"><b>Mid-Level&nbsp;Library</b></a>)
(<a href="../adf/index.html"><b>ADF&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide</b></a>)
(<a href="../cgnstools/index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Tools&nbsp;and&nbsp;Utilities</b></a>)
</center>
</small>
<a name="endnav"></a>

<h1>CGNS Steering Committee</h1>

<h2>Telecon Minutes</h2>

6 September 2001<br>
2:00pm Eastern Time<br><br>

<p>
The meeting was called to order at 2:00pm.
There were 15 attendees, as <a href="#attendees">listed below</a>.
There were 2 invited guests to the telecon: Udo
Tremel from Germany who has implemented a C++ interface on top of ADF that is
`parallel' to the mid-level library.  Marc Poinot from ONERA who has
been working a Python oriented wrapper to the mid-level library.

<ul>
<li> <b>Steering Committee Membership</b> - no activity
<br><br>
<li> <b>ISO Status</b> - Bob Bush read Ray Cosner's
     <a href="#ISOstatus">ISO status report</a>.
     
     <p>
     There was discussion of the CGNS Committee review of the ISO documents.
     Bob Bush, Diane Poirier, Charlie Towne and Chris Rumsey have reviewed
     portions of the documents.  The consensus is that the ISO documents are
     very confusing and difficult to map to the SIDS document.  This makes
     the review and comments difficult.  Bob Bush will arrange a telecon with
     Ray Cosner, and perhaps Peter Wilson, to discuss the review in more
     detail.
<br><br>
<li> <b>Documentation</b> - Charlie Towne indicated that the updated
     User's Guide has been put on the web, as have been the minutes from the
     June meeting.
     
     <p>
     Charlie and Bob reported that there has been some contact with Jim
     French to deliver the SIDS to the AIAA and re-format it for release as
     a Recommended Practice.  The CGNS Steering Committee will serve as the
     Consensus Body for the document.  Also, Jim French indicated that AIAA
     uses LaTeX for some documents (e.g. text books) so we should be able to
     maintain the documentation in close to its current form.
<br><br>
<li> <b>Reno Planning</b> - Dave Edwards reported that the AIAA paper
     abstract was approved and will be presented on Wednesday at the AIAA
     Reno meeting.  He will be collecting inputs and writing the paper in the
     October time frame.  He has also arranged for the CGNS Users Meeting
     to appear in the Conference announcement. Users group, and Steering
     Committee meetings have been tentatively scheduled for Wednesday night,
     16 January.
<br><br>
<li> <b>Software</b> - Marc Poinot indicated that they have release a
     NEC SX4/5 version of CGNS.  Manuel Kessler agreed to serve as a software
     quality check, and Diane has posted it on the web with their names as
     contact.  There seems to be an issue with ADF on the NEC with double
     precision integers.  Mark Fisher agreed to review their difficulties and
     help propose changes consistent with existing ADF software.
     
     <p>
     There was considerable discussion of what approach we should be taking
     on extending the current mid-level library functionality to object
     oriented programming standards, and distributed memory constructs.  Udo
     Tremel has a C++ version of the mid-level libraries.  There is some
     concern that wholesale replacement of the current mid-level library
     could cause backward compatibility and maintenance issues.  Marc Poinot
     has a Python object oriented wrapper to the existing ADF and mid-level
     libraries.  Mark Fisher and Todd Michal have some issues with the
     existing mid-level library (internal buffering - flush entire buffer;
     parallel access from multiple machines; lock while writing to memory).
     While there was good discussion, no consensus seemed to form on the
     direction to go.  A sub committee was formed to discuss the issue
     further.  The first step is for Mark Fisher (and or Todd Michal), Udo
     Tremel and Marc Poinot (and anyone else interested) to submit a short
     proposed approach to add the capabilities they require (object oriented
     interface, distributed memory) to Bob Bush by 20 September.  Bob will
     compile the responses, and draft a summary for review and comment.  We
     will then iterate to see if we can come to consensus on an approach that
     will satisfy the needs of all organizations (technical, manpower, time,
     etc.)
<br><br>
<li> <b>Extensions</b> - Intelligent Light has a small contract with
     NASA Langley to implement the Chemistry, Links and User Defined Array
     support.  They have the contract, identified staff, and anticipate
     beginning effort soon.  ICEM-CFD (Diane Poirier) has a small contract
     with Boeing to supply ISO support, as well as support of the existing
     software implementation.  She will be generating a version control
     system, and perhaps implementing the Rotating Coordinate extension.
</ul>

<p>
The meeting was adjourned at 3:30pm.

<a name="attendees"></a>
<h2>Attendees</h2>

<table cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0>
<tr valign=baseline><td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Bob Bush<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Pratt &amp; Whitney
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Rumsey<td>
   <td>NASA LaRC
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Greg Power<td>
   <td>AEDC
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Don Roberts<td>
   <td>Amtec
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>David Edwards<td>
   <td>Intelligent Light
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Armen Darian<td>
   <td>Boeing
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Todd Michal<td>
   <td>Boeing
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Mark Fisher<td>
   <td>Boeing
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Alan Shih<td>
   <td>Catalpa Research
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Charlie Towne<td>
   <td>NASA Glenn
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Diane Poirier<td>
   <td>ICEM-CFD
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Kurt Weber<td>
   <td>RR-Allison
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>John Chawner<td>
   <td>Pointwise
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Dave Schowalter<td>
   <td>Fluent
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Udo Tremel<td>
   <td>EADS Germany
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Marc Poinot<td>
   <td>ONERA
</table>

<a name="ISOstatus"></a>
<h2>E-mail from Ray Cosner re ISO/STEP Status</h2>

<p>
As a reminder, the ISO/STEP fluid dynamics standard based on CGNS actually
consists of four "parts", each of which is a separate document:

<ul>
<li> AP 237 - Fluid Dynamics Data
<li> Part 110 - Mesh-Based Computational Fluid Dynamics
<li> Part 52 - Mesh-Based Topology
<li> Part 52 - Numerical Analysis
</ul>

<p>
The most recent meeting of the ISO group responsible for the AP 237 Fluid
Dynamics standard was held June 11-15 in San Francisco.  During the San
Francisco meeting, a page-by-page review was conducted of each of these
parts, spanning four days.  Since then, we have been working to update the
standards documents to incorporate all comments.  The update of Part 52 was
completed on August 21; the other updates are expected to be completed in
September.  All comments from the CGNS Committee are welcomed, and if
possible we will incorporate the comments in these Parts during the current
update.  When the current update is completed, probably in the second half
of September, I will deliver all four parts to Bob Bush and ask him to
distribute them to the members of this Committee.

<p>
On September 5-6, I will brief the CGNS and ISO standards to a hydrodynamics
conference of the US Navy.  I anticipate they will express discomfort with
the absence of free surface, hydrodynamics and acoustics data provisions in
the current draft of the standard.  If that issue does come up, I will
respond that the scope of the standard is simply limited by skill areas of
the participants and by the available resources, and that we would welcome
US Navy participation to define these additional needed elements.

<p>
The next ISO meeting is Sept 30 - Oct 5, in Fukuoka Japan.  I plan to attend
this meeting, together with Peter Wilson who is the Boeing person who is
actually documenting the standard.  Another page-by-page review of the fluid
dynamics standard will be performed at that meeting.  Following that meeting
in Japan, we will again update the documentation.  This update, in the
October-January period, will be our last opportunity to make easy and
radical changes (if desired) without needing to coordinate them with other
parties participating in the ISO process.

<p>
The next ISO meeting after the Fukuoka meeting will be held Feb 25 - March
1, in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina.  At this meeting, we plan to present all
four Parts as "committee drafts" which is the third of six gates in the
process for establishing an ISO standard.  This means, the parts will be in
a complete form and they are then formally offered to the worldwide ISO
community for comments.  Once we reach this stage, we will have to maintain
a formal process of logging and responding to all comments we receive.  

<p>
<hr size=4 width=75%>
<div class=footer>
<!--#include virtual="../include/footer_small.html" -->
Last updated 4 Feb 2002

</body>
</html>
