<!-- CGNS Steering Committee Minutes -->

<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css">
<link href="minutes.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<title> CGNS Steering Committee Minutes </title>
</head>

<body text="#000000" bgcolor="#FFFFFF" link="#0000EE" vlink="#551A8B" alink="#FF0000">

<a href="#endnav"><img src="../blank.gif" border=0 alt="Skip navigation links"></a>
<small>
<center>
(<a href="../index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Documentation&nbsp;Home&nbsp;Page</b></a>)
(<a href="../charter/index.html"><b>Steering&nbsp;Committee&nbsp;Charter</b></a>)
(<a href="../overview/index.html"><b>Overview&nbsp;and&nbsp;Entry-Level&nbsp;Document</b></a>)
(<a href="../user/index.html"><b>A&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide&nbsp;to&nbsp;CGNS</b></a>)
(<a href="../sids/index.html"><b>Standard&nbsp;Interface&nbsp;Data&nbsp;Structures</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-ADF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap_hdf/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-HDF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../midlevel/index.html"><b>Mid-Level&nbsp;Library</b></a>)
(<a href="../adf/index.html"><b>ADF&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide</b></a>)
(<a href="../cgnstools/index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Tools&nbsp;and&nbsp;Utilities</b></a>)
</center>
</small>
<a name="endnav"></a>

<h1>CGNS Steering Committee</h1>

<h2>Telecon Minutes</h2>

24 August 2000<br>
2:00pm Eastern Time<br><br>

<p>
The meeting was called to order at 2:00 Eastern time.
There were 13 attendees, <a href="#attendees">listed below</a>.

<p>
The minutes of the 21 June were reviewed.
Steve Legensky asked that two discussion items be added to the
minutes: 1) We discussed version control and agreed on a new API
software release process where we release once per year, with a beta
release for new capabilities. 2) There was some discussion, with no
conclusion, about what is sufficient information to consider a file CGNS
compliant (additional discussion below). These items will be added to
the minutes. The minutes were then approved as amended.

<ul>
<li> <b>Steering Committee Nominations</b> - The Sverdrup
     representatives at AEDC indicated a willingness to represent the
     Air Force on the Steering Committee. This will be included in the
     discussion for the list of nominees to be presented at the end of
     the year.
<br><br>
<li> <b>ISO Status</b> - There was a meeting to review the preliminary
     ISO-STEP documentation which represents the migration of CGNS
     into an international standard. The Steering Committee should
     remain vigilant that the standards do not diverge. So far, it
     seems that CGNS and the ISO standard can remain compatible.  The
     ISO-STEP proposal is due out for public comment in November. It is
     hoped that the CGNS community will actively review and keep the
     definitions from diverging.
<br><br>
<li> <b>Documentation</b> - Charlie Towne indicated that the SIDS has
     been updated, and is almost ready for release. There was some
     discussion about how to release the SIDS and API. It was decided
     to create a beta release of the software, and to make the SIDS
     documentation consistent with each release.
     <br><br>
     <ul>
     <li> Version 2.0 Beta 1: SIDS with all changes prior to grid motion
     <li> Version 2.0 Beta 2: Add grid motion and time accurate
     <li> Version 2.0 Beta 3: Add other extensions
     </ul>
     <br>
     In December, Version 2.0 Beta 3 will become the production version 2.0.

     <p>
     Chris Rumsey has written a draft User's Guide which is being
     reviewed by Bob Bush and Diane Poirier. Ed Hall volunteered to
     review the draft also.
     
     <p>
     Steve Legensky is working on an AIAA implementation paper. He will
     be sending out a brief survey to get feedback on how and where
     CGNS is being used. He is also collecting examples to demonstrate
     interchangeability of the files. Potential volunteers with examples
     include Ed Hall and Dave Schowalter.  It was also mentioned
     that the AIAA Drag Prediction Workshop might provide a good
     demonstration of delivering grids, and potentially solutions, using
     CGNS.
<br><br>
<li> <b> Support</b> - Don Roberts discussed his experiences with
     Tecplot Talk, an e-mail forum we might use as a pattern for a
     CGNS group. ListBot could manage the forum, potentially at no
     charge. Diane will check into setting up a forum for CGNS.
     
     <p>
     There were no replies to inquiries for user support focal point.
<br><br>
<li> <b>Extensions</b>
     <br><br>
     <ul>
     <li> Hierarchical Structures - Michel Delanaye has submitted
          a proposal. Very limited feedback to date (Diane). It is on
          the web, and the deadline for comments is set for the end of
          September so the implementation can begin.
     <br><br>
     <li> Chemistry - The proposal has been in review recently,
          with minor mods incorporated. A revised version will
          be posted on the web when the current reviewers are in
          concurrence. Armen Darian has requested to be included in the
          current review.
     <br><br>
     <li> Gravity, Axi-symmetry, Rotating Coordinates - Are ready
          for implementation.
     <br><br>
     <li> Liquid Spray - Armen Darian has a draft in
          circulation. Additional reviewers are needed. Steve Legensky
          volunteered to review. Hope to have a proposal ready to post
          in September.
     <br><br>
     <li> Hanging Nodes - No progress. Steve Legensky has
          contacted Steve Karman and plans to discuss with M. Aftosmis.
     <br><br>
     <li> Wall Functions - Bob Bush will try to revive this
          extension. Chris Rumsey, Ed Hall and Steve Legensky offered to
          be on the review team.
     <br><br>
     <li> Turbomachinery Boundary Conditions - Bob Bush will try
          to revive this extension also. No volunteers to review.
     </ul>
<br>
<li> <b>Additional Items</b> - It is difficult to interrogate and edit
     a file. Ed Hall offered to look into acquiring utilities that
     facilitate this. Diane Poirier will send a code that reads a file
     and outputs its contents. It would also be nice to have an editing
     capability, and a graphical user interface into the file. This
     might allow creation of non-cgns compliant modifications to the
     file. This also raises the possibility of a 'validator' which
     checks for some set of minimal information required to make the
     file 'compliant'. Francis Enomoto has looked at XML, which might be
     useable as a CGNS browser since XML structures are similar to CGNS
     structures. He will try to map the SIDS into an XML format.
</ul>

<p>
Bob Bush will set up the next telecon for mid October, the next
meeting will take place at the AIAA conference in Reno in January.

<a name="attendees"></a>
<h2>Attendees</h2>

<table cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0>
<tr valign=baseline><td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Don Roberts<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Amtec Engineering
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Rumsey<td>
   <td>NASA LaRC
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Rick Matus<td>
   <td>Pointwise Inc.
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Steve Legensky<td>
   <td>Intelligent Light
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Diane Poirier<td>
   <td>ICEM CFD
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Bob Bush<td>
   <td>UTRC
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Charlie Towne<td>
   <td>NASA Glenn
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Francis Enomoto<td>
   <td>NASA Ames
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Armen Darian<td>
   <td>Boeing
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Dave Schowalter<td>
   <td>Fluent
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Michel Delanaye<td>
   <td>NUMECA
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Teresa Babraukas<td>
   <td>NASA Glenn
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Ed Hall<td>
   <td>Allison
</table>

<p>
<hr size=4 width=75%>
<div class=footer>
<!--#include virtual="../include/footer_small.html" -->
Last updated 4 Feb 2002

</body>
</html>

