<!-- CGNS Steering Committee Minutes -->

<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css">
<link href="minutes.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<title> CGNS Steering Committee Minutes </title>
</head>

<body text="#000000" bgcolor="#FFFFFF" link="#0000EE" vlink="#551A8B" alink="#FF0000">

<a href="#endnav"><img src="../blank.gif" border=0 alt="Skip navigation links"></a>
<small>
<center>
(<a href="../index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Documentation&nbsp;Home&nbsp;Page</b></a>)
(<a href="../charter/index.html"><b>Steering&nbsp;Committee&nbsp;Charter</b></a>)
(<a href="../overview/index.html"><b>Overview&nbsp;and&nbsp;Entry-Level&nbsp;Document</b></a>)
(<a href="../user/index.html"><b>A&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide&nbsp;to&nbsp;CGNS</b></a>)
(<a href="../sids/index.html"><b>Standard&nbsp;Interface&nbsp;Data&nbsp;Structures</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-ADF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap_hdf/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-HDF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../midlevel/index.html"><b>Mid-Level&nbsp;Library</b></a>)
(<a href="../adf/index.html"><b>ADF&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide</b></a>)
(<a href="../cgnstools/index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Tools&nbsp;and&nbsp;Utilities</b></a>)
</center>
</small>
<a name="endnav"></a>

<h1>CGNS Steering Committee</h1>

<h2>Meeting Minutes</h2>

11 January 2006<br>
7:30 PM Pacific Time

<p>
<ol>
<li> The meeting was called to order at 7:35 PM.
     There were <a href="#attendees">16 attendees</a>, listed below.
<p>
<li> The minutes of the 4 October 2005 meeting were approved as posted
     on the web site.
<p>
<li> Rumsey presented steering committee membership changes and updates
     (based on contacting all current members and asking for commitment)
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Removal of NUMECA and NASA Ames
     <li> Addition of Pratt &amp; Whitney - Rocketdyne (represented by
          Darian)
     <li> Boeing - Rocketdyne changed to Boeing - IDS/PW (represented
          by Dominik)
     <li> <u>Rumsey to contact Towne to update
          <a href="../charter/index.html">Charter</a> with above changes.</u>
     <li> Personnel changes: Benyo replaced by Towne for NASA Glenn;
          Stuckert replaced by Gupta for Fluent
     <li> Committee approved the above changes
     <li> It was suggested to ask Aftsomis from NASA Ames.
          <u>Rumsey will contact him about possible participation.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Status of previous action items:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Rumsey will contact all current steering committee members and
          ask for commitment.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.
          </ol>
     <li> Allmaras will write explicit documentation, for addition to
          SIDS, describing face-based storage and providing explicit
          examples for using the method, and will send to Rumsey and
          Michal for review.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet. <u>Action item carries.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey, Poinot, and Hauser to coordinate CGNS Panel Discussion
          and possible tutorial for AIAAs June 2006 meeting in San
          Francisco.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Underway.  See <a href="#item5">number 5</a> below for
               detailed status.
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan will write documentation for SIDS and MLL as appropriate
          on Rind-for-unstructured and send to Rumsey, Norris, and Towne.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet. <u>Action item carries.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey will contact Koziol to learn status of HDF-5 beta
          implementation of external links for helping to solve link of
          links problem.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Koziol contacted.  His response was as follows: "made
               progress toward implementing external links and the
               extensions to the library necessary for supporting
               'creation order index' access to objects in groups ...
               estimate a beta release before the end of 2005 and a real
               1.8.0 release sometime in first quarter of 2006."
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey will review the <a href="#HDF5_todo">HDF-5 to-do list</a>
          and revise if necessary.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.  One item added (link of links). See the
               <a href="#HDF5_todo">list</a>.
          </ol>
     <li> Poinot will update the
          <a href="http://cgns-python.berlios.de/">PyCGNS website</a>
          <img src="../external.png" alt="external link"> with regard to
          the XML compliance tool.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> In process.  Also, the document "CGNS component
               specification guidelines" will be made available to CGNS
               steering committee soon.
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey will update <a href="../overview/elements.html">Elements
          and Documentation</a> section of
          <a href="../overview/index.html">CGNS Overview and
          Entry-Level</a> document to reflect option of using HDF-5, and
          send to Towne to post.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan to look into issue of memory allocation for
          <a href="../midlevel/descriptor.html#descriptor"><tt>cg_descriptor_read</tt></a>
          (related to use of <tt>malloc</tt>).
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet. <u>Action item carries.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan to post HDF-5 policy statement on website, and include
          link to HDF-5 site.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Will do soon. <u>Action item carries. Also, Wedan will try
               to give Rumsey access to the CGNS website.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey will look into the issue of having
          <tt>InterpolantsDonor</tt> be an optional node for
          <a href="../sids/cnct.html#GridConnectivity"><tt>GridConnectivity</tt></a>,
          and will respond to the committee about it.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.  See discussion under <a href="#item11">number 11</a>
               below.
          </ol>
     <a name="actionl"></a>
     <li> Poinot will send Rumsey a copy of his tree to show how he
          handled source terms for internal BCs
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.  <u>Rumsey will summarize and pass on to others
               through CGNSTalk.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Poinot will e-mail a copy of his paper to Towne for posting.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.
          </ol>
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="item5"></a>
<li> Planning for San Francisco AIAA meeting
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Two major CGNS events planned: Panel discussion and evening
          tutorial session
     <li> Panel discussion will be "CGNS Practical Applications in CFD",
          under auspices of Fluid Dynamics TC.  We currently have 5
          potential panel members: Cayre (SNECMA), Sudre (Eurocopter),
          Poinot (ONERA), Hann (Ansys-CFX), Allmaras or Mani (Boeing).
          Rumsey and Stuckert will try to identify an additional 1 or 2
          panelists by end of January.  Bob Bush and Bruce Wedan said
          they may be able to participate if we need them.  <u>Rumsey
          to send Stuckert and Bush a copy of invitation letter for
          reference.</u>
     <li> Discussion held about evening tutorial. 
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Van der Weide volunteered to help teach (specifically
               something on basic usage of CGNS for unstructured).
          <li> Committee felt the tutorial should be in 2 parts: basic
               and advanced, with break between.
          <li> Intro should be longer, and give a sort of crash course,
               and include justification for CGNS, and possibly demonstrate
               Plot3d vs. CGNS side-by-side, and include discussion of
               dimensional/nondimensional.
          <li> Rumsey, Wedan, Van der Weide to focus on basic tutorial;
               Hauser and Poinot to focus on more advanced topics (such
               as HDF-5, parallel, PyCGNS, XML). These volunteers will
               coordinate with each other, but will be responsible to
               develop their "section" independently.
          <li> Committee decided NOT to force attendees to sign up in
               advance.
          <li> Rumsey suggested having the tutorial in lieu of the
               regular steering committee meeting.
          <li> <u>Rumsey to look into advertising the tutorial</u>: through
               AIAA website? Aerospace America? the CGNS website? mass
               mailing?  CGNSTalk?
          </ol>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Open items (see <a href="#item15">number 15</a> below)
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Reviewed by committee; no change
     </ol>
<p>
<li> ISO/STEP
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> No updates available prior to meeting, but the following
          received from Hunten afterward:
          <ol type=i>
          <li> The modularization and allocation of data to modules
               for AP209E2 has been updated to better reflect the CFD
               specific data. One of the four new STEP Integrated
               Resource (IR) documents necessary for the addition of the
               CGNS work has been published, work is progressing on the
               second.  These two IR documents provide the integration
               of the CGNS work with the rest of STEP.  The work is just
               starting on the other two CFD specific IR documents. Work
               has begun creating the module that provides the link of
               analysis to product shared with the Systems Engineering
               AP233 program. A workshop was held at NCSA to refine the
               definition of an HDF5 standard mapping for EXPRESS that
               will provide a binary capability.  In addition strategies
               for API definition were discussed.
          </ol>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Documentation
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> The latest SIDS has passed the AIAA voting process, and an
          updated Recommended Practice document will be published by
          AIAA soon.
     <li> There have been minor updates to documentation - see website
          for <a href="../whatsnew.html">details</a>.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Software
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> UsersGuideCode has been updated to include C routines (on
          <a href="http://sourceforge.net/projects/cgns">SourceForge</a>
          <img src="../external.png" alt="external link"> -
          CVS and as new release)
     <li> <tt>InwardNormalList</tt> problem (lines 1877-1878 in
          <i>cgns_internal.c</i>). <u>Wedan will investigate.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> HDF-5
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Hauser's student is almost ready with a beta release for
          parallel HDF-5, probably by end of January
          <ol type=i>
          <li> unstructured not included
          <li> for now will be released as a separate entity on
               <a href="http://sourceforge.net/projects/cgns">SourceForge</a>
               <img src="../external.png" alt="external link">
          <li> Alonso and van der Weide plan to get it and try it out.
          </ol>
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="item11"></a>
<li> Extensions
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Issue of mismatched/abutting interfaces 
          <ol type=i>
          <li> In previous e-mail voting, steering committee
               members voted 8-0 to change the SIDS so as to make
               <tt>CellList</tt>+<tt>InterpolantsDonor</tt> (under
               <a href="../sids/cnct.html#GridConnectivity"><tt>GridConnectivity</tt></a>)
               optional rather than required.
          <li> This change requires changes to the MLL API (likely needs
               new <tt>cg_conn_write_short</tt> call).  <u>Wedan will look
               into this.</u>
          <li> <u>Rumsey will make changes to the SIDS and will pass on to
               Towne.</u> The doc changes will need to be coordinated to
               correspond with the release in which the MLL changes will
               be made.
          </ol>
     <li> Issue of possible need for source terms for internal BCs
          <ol type=i>
          <li> There may be a need to eventually propose a new extension
               to handle this cleanly.  See <a href="#actionl">action
               item (l)</a> above.
          </ol>
     <li> Issue of
          <a href="../sids/cnct.html#ZoneGridConnectivity"><tt>ZoneGridConnectivity</tt></a>
          for <a href="../sids/timedep.html">time-dependent data</a> 
          <ol type=i>
          <li> This brought up by Leich at Intelligent Light
          <li> It is likely that we will need to modify the SIDS &amp;
               MLL to allow for multiple <tt>ZoneGridConnectivity</tt>'s
               for time-dependent data (and also need to store pointers
               to these under
               <a href="../sids/timedep.html#BaseIterativeData"><tt>BaseIterativeData</tt></a>).
               This is so can save moving
               <a href="../sids/cnct.html#OversetHoles"><tt>OversetHoles</tt></a>
               in a time-dependent dataset, for example. <u>Rumsey and
               Bush will look at this and put together a preliminary
               proposal.</u>
          </ol>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Other issues
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> The committee may want to consider developing "levels of
          compliance" for vendors.  For example, "level 1" may mean
          a code can read a CGS file with grid and connectivity
          information.  "Level 2" may include BCs and reference data.
          <u>Alonso will forward to Rumsey some preliminary ideas on this,
          related to problems he has encountered.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Meeting was adjourned at 9:10 PM.
<p>
<li> Summary of <u><b>action items</b></u>:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Rumsey and Towne to update
          <a href="../charter/index.html">Charter</a> with changes to
          committee membership.
     <li> Rumsey will contact Aftosmis about possible participation on
          committee.
     <li> Allmaras will write explicit documentation, for addition
          to SIDS, describing face-based storage and providing explicit
          examples for using the method, and will send to Rumsey and Michal
          for review.
     <li> Wedan will write documentation for SIDS and MLL as appropriate
          on Rind-for-unstructured and send to Rumsey, Norris, and Towne.
     <li> Wedan to look into issue of memory allocation for
          <a href="../midlevel/descriptor.html#descriptor"><tt>cg_descriptor_read</tt></a>
          (related to use of <tt>malloc</tt>).
     <li> Wedan to post HDF-5 policy statement on website, and include
          link to HDF-5 site.  Also Wedan will try to give Rumsey access
          to the CGNS website.
     <li> Rumsey will summarize Poinot's handling of source terms for
          internal BCs, and pass on to others through CGNSTalk.
     <li> Rumsey to send Stuckert and Bush a copy of invitation letter
          to panelists for reference.
     <li> Rumsey to look into advertising the tutorial session to be
          held in San Francisco.
     <li> Wedan will investigate <tt>InwardNormalList</tt> problem (lines
          1877-1878 in <i>cgns_internal.c</i>).
     <li> Wedan will look into MLL changes associated with making
          <tt>CellList</tt>+<tt>InterpolantsDonor</tt> (under
          <a href="../sids/cnct.html#GridConnectivity"><tt>GridConnectivity</tt></a>)
          optional rather than required.
     <li> Rumsey will make SIDS doc changes associated with making
          <tt>CellList</tt>+<tt>InterpolantsDonor</tt> (under
          <a href="../sids/cnct.html#GridConnectivity"><tt>GridConnectivity</tt></a>)
          optional rather than required.
     <li> Rumsey and Bush will look at need for multiple
          <a href="../sids/cnct.html#ZoneGridConnectivity"><tt>ZoneGridConnectivity</tt></a>'s
          for <a href="../sids/timedep.html">time-dependent data</a> and
          will put together a preliminary proposal.
     <li> Alonso will forward to Rumsey some preliminary ideas on levels
          of compliance for vendors, related to problems he has
          encountered.
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="item15"></a>
<li> Summary of <u><b>open items</u></b> from prior meetings (these are
     different from action items, in that they are open or unresolved
     issues that we want to keep track of, but there are no specific
     actions required of anyone at this point in time):
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Keep track of / resolve <a href="#HDF5_todo">HDF-5 "to-do"
          list</a>.
     <li> Keep track of progress with ISO/STEP.
     <li> Need for official certification process (test for compliance)
     <li> Need to add Karman's additional <tt>PYRA</tt> element type to
          allowed list (in software and in SIDS)
     <li> Need to upgrade / update <a href="../user/index.html">User's
          Guide</a> as appropriate (such as additional specific
          examples)
     </ol>
</ol>

<a name="attendees"></a>
<h2>Attendees</h2>

<table cellspacing=0 cellpadding=0 border=0>
<tr valign=baseline><td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Steven Allmaras<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Boeing Commercial
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Juan Alonso<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Stanford
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Ed Ascoli<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Pratt &amp; Whitney - Rocketdyne
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Steve Barson<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Pratt &amp; Whitney - Rocketdyne
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Bob Bush<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Pratt &amp; Whitney
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Carolyn Dear<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Pointwise
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Earl Duque<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Intelligent Light
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Dan Dominik<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Boeing - IDS/PW
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Thomas Hauser<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Utah State
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Todd Michal<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Boeing - IDS/St. Louis 
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Nelson<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>ITAC
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Christopher Reed<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Lockheed Martin Aero
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Rumsey<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>NASA Langley
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Greg Stuckert<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Fluent
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Edwin Van der Weide<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Stanford
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Bruce Wedan<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>ANSYS / ICEM CFD
</table>

<a name="HDF5_todo"></a>
<h2>Tentative to-do list in association with HDF-5 switchover</h2>

<ul>
<li> Complete and test parallel implementation
<li> Complete and test API capability to automatically detect and switch
     between ADF and HDF-5 (transparent to user?)
<li> Assess/minimize impact on software vendors using CGNS
<li> Make changes recommended by HDF-5 to improve usability with HDF-5
     (e.g., character strings as opposed to character arrays)
<li> Assess compression capability of HDF-5
<li> CGNS configure scripts will need to be modified to check for
     availability of appropriate HDF-5 libraries.
<li> Possibly add flag-based options when opening CGNS files.  For
     example: "follow links" vs. "don't follow links"; "use ADF" vs. "use
     HDF-5"; "translate file automatically" vs. "leave the file as-is";
     "compress" vs. "don't compress".
<li> Look into eliminating need for ID's from MLL
<li> Resolve "link-of-links" problem: will require HDF-5 fix by NCSA
     (beta implementation of "external links" is in the works - likely
     complete in early 2006?)
</ul>

<p>
<hr size=4 width=75%>
<div class=footer>
<!--#include virtual="../include/footer_small.html" -->
Last updated 17 Jan 2006

</body>
</html>
