<!-- CGNS Steering Committee Minutes -->

<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css">
<link href="minutes.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<title> CGNS Steering Committee Minutes </title>
</head>

<body text="#000000" bgcolor="#FFFFFF" link="#0000EE" vlink="#551A8B" alink="#FF0000">

<a href="#endnav"><img src="../blank.gif" border=0 alt="Skip navigation links"></a>
<small>
<center>
(<a href="../index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Documentation&nbsp;Home&nbsp;Page</b></a>)
(<a href="../charter/index.html"><b>Steering&nbsp;Committee&nbsp;Charter</b></a>)
(<a href="../overview/index.html"><b>Overview&nbsp;and&nbsp;Entry-Level&nbsp;Document</b></a>)
(<a href="../user/index.html"><b>A&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide&nbsp;to&nbsp;CGNS</b></a>)
(<a href="../sids/index.html"><b>Standard&nbsp;Interface&nbsp;Data&nbsp;Structures</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-ADF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap_hdf/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-HDF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../midlevel/index.html"><b>Mid-Level&nbsp;Library</b></a>)
(<a href="../adf/index.html"><b>ADF&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide</b></a>)
(<a href="../cgnstools/index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Tools&nbsp;and&nbsp;Utilities</b></a>)
</center>
</small>
<a name="endnav"></a>

<h1>CGNS Steering Committee</h1>

<h2>Meeting Minutes</h2>

6 January 2008<br>
7:30 PM Pacific Time<br>
AIAA Aerospace Sciences Meeting, Reno, NV

<p>
<ol>
<li> The meeting was called to order at 7:35 PM.  There were
     <a href="#attendees">9 attendees</a> (one by telecon), listed below.
<p>
<li> The minutes of the <a href="telecon_nov07.html">28 November 2007
     meeting</a> were approved as posted on the web site.
<p>
<li> Steering Committee membership changes, updates, and issues
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Thomas Hauser was voted in as the new chair of the CGNS
          steering committee. This is a 2-year term, through January
          2010. Congratulations, Thomas!
     <li> We are still looking for a CGNS Steering committee member
          willing to assume the role of Vice Chair (2-year position).
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Status of previous action items
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Hauser and Wedan will put V3.0 with parallel HDF-5 capability
          as an alpha release on SourceForge when ready.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Wedan has put an alpha release of V3.0 on SourceForge
               (CVS access only). This version has the new PYRA fixes
               (see <a href="#open_d">Open Items, item (d)</a>), allows the user to choose
               between ADF, HDF-5, and XML on the fly, and supports
               <tt>NGON_n</tt> plus <tt>NFACE_n</tt> (see item (b)
               below). The parallel HDF-5 capability is not in it yet.
               <u>Hauser will add HDF-5 parallel capability to V3.0
               on SourceForge CVS and will let users know when it is
               available.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Allmaras will send Rumsey, Feldman, and Pereira revised
          face-based proposal for evaluation, comparison with original
          proposal, and posting on website.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done.  However, Wedan has implemented the proposal
               from 1/07 into V3.0 on SourceForge (CVS access only).
               This is described <a href="#NGON">below</a>. Users are
               encouraged to look at this method and see if it suits
               their needs. <u>Rumsey to send Wedan any existing
               documentation on <tt>NGON_n</tt> + <tt>NFACE_n</tt> for
               modification/addition, then posting.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey will coordinate bringing the Regions proposal to
          completion.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet.  This item has been transferred to
               Allmaras. <u>Allmaras to finalize Regions proposal
               modification, including proposed additions to
               <tt>FlowSolution</tt>, <tt>DiscreteData</tt>,
               <tt>BC</tt>, and <tt>BCDataSet</tt> and send to Rumsey
               for posting on website.</u>
          <li> There was also discussion regarding potential Boeing
               involvement in helping the development effort in this
               regard.  <u>Paul, Bussoletti, and Allmaras to look into
               finding development resources (particularly for MLL
               implementation) at Boeing.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey will develop a proposal to handle sprays of unconnected
          points.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done; Rumsey decided he was not enough of an expert
               on this subject to do it justice. <u>Duque and Hauser to
               assume lead on new discussion/proposal for handling
               sprays of unconnected points.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Hann and Hauser will evaluate the capability for writing
          HDF-5, ADF, or XML in proposed V3.0.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done for HDF-5 and ADF. Others may also now evaluate by
               getting V3.0 alpha from Sourceforge (CVS version). Use of
               XML is available in V3.0 alpha, but there may be issues
               related to consistency of the XML grammar. <u>Hauser to
               have further discussions with Poinot on usage of XML and
               possible need for changes.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan will look into Weinkauf (9/12/07 CGNSTalk) issues
          regarding automatically closing linked files, problem with
          unsuccessful opening leaving data structures undefined, issues
          with <tt>MAXIMUM_FILES</tt>, and use of relative paths.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done. These limitations have been fixed.  They are
               currently in the CVS version of V2.5, and will be in the
               official V2.5.3 when it is released.
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser will maintain contact with users interested in parallel
          HDF-5 capability, and let them know when parallel V3.0alpha
          version is ready to be tested.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet.  Action item cancelled (absorbed into
               another action item).
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser and Rumsey will contact people in Europe regarding
          possibility of holding a European CGNS User's Meeting sometime
          in the future.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Ongoing. <u>Hauser, Rumsey, and Poinot to continue to
               explore possible CGNS meeting in Europe.</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey will carry several unresolved CGNSTalk issues over
          to the next meeting: Bussoletti 9/25/07 CGNSTalk), Guzik
          (10/02/07 CGNSTalk), Miller (10/19/07 CGNSTalk).
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done.
          </ol>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Open items (see <a href="#open_items">number 15 below</a>)
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Purpose of open items is to not lose track of long-term issues
          that come up.
     <li> Two new open items added (see <a href="#software_c">Software
          item (c)</a>).
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="short_course"></a>
<li> CGNS short course for AIAA
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Originally scheduled for Jan 5-6, 2008 in Reno, NV (just prior
          to Aerospace Sciences Meeting), but had to be cancelled due to
          insufficient number of advance registrants.  AIAA would like
          to try again for their Summer 2009 conference.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> ISO/STEP
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Nothing new to report.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Documentation
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Nothing new to report.
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="software"></a>
<li> Software
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Issue of the API forcing a copy of the entire CGNS file
          temporarily (Bussoletti
          <a href="https://lists.nasa.gov/mailman/private/cgnstalk/2007/001142.html">9/25/07
          CGNSTalk</a>) was discussed. This is an ADFViewer issue (the
          MLL does a compress when closing, so it is not an issue
          there). <u>Wedan will add a button to ADFViewer to allow user to
          compress file after deleting nodes.</u>
     <li> Issue from Guzik
          (<a href="https://lists.nasa.gov/mailman/private/cgnstalk/2007/001147.html">10/02/07
          CGNSTalk</a>) on the use of
          <a href="../midlevel/fileops.html#configure"><tt>cg_configure</tt></a>
          to avoid the copy. Currently <tt>cg_config_compress</tt> by
          default is &minus;1 (only compress if nodes deleted), but it
          can also be set to 1 (always rewrite) or 0 (never rewrite).
          <u>Rumsey to check with Towne if documentation is in place
          for <tt>cg_config_compress</tt>.</u> Guzik also brought
          up issues on it being not necessary to delete and rewrite
          entire node when dimensions are the same, and specific
          issue regarding dereferencing void. <u>Wedan to investigate
          issue of MLL deleting the entire node even though its new
          dimensions are the same.</u> Also, <u>Wedan to investigate
          type casting of int to void pointer then dereferencing
          (<tt>cg_configure</tt>).</u>
     <li> <a name="software_c"></a>Issue of wanting to write info one element at a time to save
          memory via
          <a href="../midlevel/grid.html#elements"><tt>cg_section_write_f</tt></a>,
          and issue of possible need for "long" instead of "int" (Miller
          <a href="https://lists.nasa.gov/mailman/private/cgnstalk/2007/001155.html">10/19/07
          CGNSTalk</a>). Issue of writing one element at a time (perhaps
          using something like <tt>cg_section_partialwrite</tt>) is
          somewhat difficult and cannot be addressed in the near-term.
          This item has been added as an "Open Item." Issue of ints
          &amp; longs is complicated; many aspects are machine
          dependent.  We may need to define our own datatype to allow
          for greater than 2 Gig signed limit.  This item has also been
          added as an "Open Item."
     <li> Need to change Celcius to Celsius (<i>cgnsKeywords.h</i>,
          <i>cgnslib.c</i>, <i>cgnslib.h</i>, <i>cgnslib_f.h</i>) (Lecointe
          <a href="https://lists.nasa.gov/mailman/private/cgnstalk/2007/001169.html">12/5/07
          CGNSTalk</a>). Fixed in CVS version 2.5.  Will be in V2.5.3
          official version when it is released.  In V2.5, it will accept
          either spelling; but in V3.0, it will only accept the correct
          spelling (Celsius).
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="HDF5"></a>
<li> HDF-5
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Some discussion of HDF-5 linking features (see
          <a href="telecon_nov07.html">minutes from November 2007</a>).
          <u>Poinot to send necessary coding changes for HDF-5 linking
          to Hauser for implementation into V3.0 alpha version.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="extensions"></a>
<li> Extensions
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Covered under Status of Previous Action Items.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Other issues
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Rumsey reported on "Accomplishments" and "Concerns" for 2007.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Accomplishments:
               <ol type=1>
               <li> Maintenance &amp; Support
                    <ol type=a>
                    <li> 1 new steering committee member added (total=23)
                    <li> Website moved from ICEM to SourceForge hosting
                    </ol>
               <li> Evolution
                    <ol type=a>
                    <li> September 2007: official release of Version 2.5
                         (off beta status)
                    <li> Fixed HDF5 external links feature (with CGNS
                         mods to be implemented and with a soon-to-be
                         released version of HDF-5)
                    </ol>
               <li> Acceptance
                    <ol type=a>
                    <li> Latest SIDS finally came out in 2007 in AIAA's
                         Recommended Practice document update:  AIAA
                         R-101A-2005
                    <li> As of Oct 2007, the CGNSTalk mailing list had
                         223 participants from 20 different countries
                         and 77 different organizations
                    <li> Over 21,000 CGNS downloads from SourceForge
                         since 2003 (average of 496 per month over the
                         last year)
                    </ol>
               <li> Answering questions &amp; Exchanging ideas
                    <ol type=a>
                    <li> CGNSTalk has regular postings (137 postings in
                         2007)
                    <li> CGNS short course is nearly developed (Alabi,
                         Hauser, Poinot, Wedan, Rumsey) - even though it
                         was cancelled for Jan 2008
                    </ol>
               </ol>
          <li> Concerns:
               <ol type=1>
               <li> Maintenance &amp; Support
                    <ol type=a>
                    <li> We still only have 1 official developer (in his
                         spare time)
                    </ol>
               <li> Evolution
                    <ol type=a>
                    <li> All recent proposals for extension have been
                         stalled during 2007, either in development or
                         in implementation
                    <li> Move toward implementation of V3.0 (with
                         parallel HDF-5) has been very slow
                    </ol>
               <li> Acceptance
                    <ol type=a>
                    <li> CGNS short course for Jan 2008 (through AIAA)
                         had to be cancelled due to lack of minimum
                         required registrants
                    </ol>
               <li> Answering questions &amp; Exchanging ideas
                    <ol type=a>
                    <li> CGNSTalk postings mostly only answered by a few
                         people; questions sometimes remain unanswered /
                         unresolved for a long time
                    </ol>
               </ol>
          </ol>
     <li> <u>Rumsey to look into adding back (optional) registration to
          website when people download CGNS.</u>
     <li> <u>Rumsey to respond to some of the CGNSTalk issues that are
          now closed.</u>
     <li> <u>Hauser to look into methods on SourceForge for getting
          Poinot developer access: switch from CVS to SVN? or use SSL?</u>
     <li> <u>Rumsey to notify people about V3.0 alpha.</u>
     <li> <u>Wedan to release 2.5.3.</u>
     <li> <u>Hauser to speak to Koziol at HDF5 Group about issues
          related to developers and funding; and also to ask about when
          their link-fix release will become official.</u>
     <li> <u>Wedan to investigate problem with NFS-mounted soft links
          when re-write file.</u>
     <li> <u>Rumsey and Hauser to work out issues on domain name with
          ANSYS-ICEM.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Meeting was adjourned at 9:15 PM. Next Telecon will be called by
     Hauser.
<p>
<li> Summary of <b><u>action items</u></b>:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Hauser will add HDF-5 parallel capability to V3.0 on
          SourceForge CVS and will let users know when it is available.
     <li> Rumsey to send Wedan any existing documentation on
          <tt>NGON_n</tt> + <tt>NFACE_n</tt> for modification/addition,
          then post.
     <li> Allmaras to finalize Regions proposal modification,
          including proposed additions to <tt>FlowSolution</tt>,
          <tt>DiscreteData</tt>, <tt>BC</tt>, and <tt>BCDataSet</tt> and
          send to Rumsey for posting on website.
     <li> Paul, Bussoletti, and Allmaras to look into finding
          development (particularly for MLL implementation) resources at
          Boeing.
     <li> Duque and Hauser to assume lead on new discussion/proposal for
          handling sprays of unconnected points.
     <li> Hauser to have further discussions with Poinot on usage of XML
          and possible need for changes.
     <li> Hauser, Rumsey, and Poinot to continue to explore possible
          CGNS meeting in Europe.
     <li> Wedan will add a button to ADFViewer to allow user to compress
          file after deleting nodes.
     <li> Rumsey to check with Towne if documentation is in place for
          <tt>cg_config_compress</tt>.
     <li> Poinot to send necessary coding changes for HDF-5 linking to
          Hauser for implementation into V3.0 alpha version.
     <li> Rumsey to look into adding back (optional) registration to
          website when people download CGNS.
     <li> Rumsey to respond to some of the CGNSTalk issues that are now
          closed.
     <li> Hauser to look into methods on SourceForge for getting Poinot
          developer access: switch from CVS to SVN? or use SSL?
     <li> Rumsey to notify people about V3.0 alpha.
     <li> Wedan to release 2.5.3.
     <li> Hauser to speak to Koziol at HDF5 Group about issues related
          to developers and funding; and also to ask about when their
          link-fix release will become official.
     <li> Wedan to investigate problem with NFS-mounted soft links when
          re-write file.
     <li> Wedan to investigate issue of MLL deleting the entire node
          even though its new dimensions are the same.
     <li> Wedan to investigate type casting of int to void pointer then
          dereferencing (<tt>cg_configure</tt>).
     <li> Rumsey and Hauser to work out issues on domain name with
          ANSYS-ICEM.
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="open_items"></a>
<li> Summary of <b><u>open items</u></b> from prior meetings (these are
     different from action items, in that they are open or unresolved
     issues that we want to keep track of, but there are no specific
     actions required of anyone at this point in time):
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Keep track of/resolve HDF-5 "to-do" list.
     <li> Keep track of progress with ISO/STEP.
     <li> Need for official certification process (test for compliance)
     <li> <a name="open_d"></a>Need to make Karman's changes to <tt>PYRA</tt> elements:
          change <tt>PYRA_14</tt> to <tt>PYRA_13</tt>, without the
          centroid, and add <tt>PYRA_14</tt> with the base mid-face
          defined (in software and in SIDS). Need to wait until V3.0 for
          this due to compatibility issues.
     <li> Need to upgrade/update <a href="../user/index.html">User's
          Guide</a> as appropriate (such as additional specific examples)
     <li> Need to resolve slow behavior and larger file sizes that can
          occur in CGNS files when there are many (thousands) of nodes.
     <li> Develop method to write info one element at a time to save
          memory via something like <tt>cg_section_partialwrite</tt>
          (Miller <a href="https://lists.nasa.gov/mailman/private/cgnstalk/2007/001155.html">10/19/07
          CGNSTalk</a>)
     <li> Address issue of possible need for "long" instead of "int" to
          avoid signed 2 Gig limit (Miller 10/19/07 CGNSTalk).
     </ol>
</ol>

<a name="attendees"></a>
<h2>Attendees</h2>

<table cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0>
<tr valign=baseline><td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Steve Allmaras<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Boeing Commercial
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Earl Duque<td>
   <td>Intelligent Light
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Thomas Hauser<td>
   <td>Utah State
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Scott Imlay<td>
   <td>Tecplot
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Steve Karman<td>
   <td>U Tennessee Chattanooga
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Ben Paul<td>
   <td>Boeing Commercial
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Simon Pereira<td>
   <td>ANSYS / ICEM CFD
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Rumsey<td>
   <td>NASA Langley
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Bruce Wedan<td>
   <td>no affiliation
</table>

<a name="NGON"></a>
<h2>New <tt>NGON_n</tt> + <tt>NFACE_n</tt> Capability</h2>

<p>
The following is a brief description of the proposed extension for
storing arbitrary polyhedral cells.  This is implemented in the alpha
release of V3.0 (currently available on SourceForge under CVS only).

<p>
In it, we redefine <tt>NGON_n</tt> to be similar to <tt>MIXED</tt>,
but with the element type replaced by the number of nodes for the
face. We then eliminate all of the element types <tt>NGON_n+1</tt>,
<tt>NGON_n+2</tt>, etc. For face-based storage, this requires exactly
the same amount of data for the element definitions, since we replace
<pre>
   type = MIXED;
   Element = NGON_n+nnodes,node1,node2,...
</pre>
with
<pre>
   Type = NGON_n
   Element = nnodes,node1,node2,...
</pre>

<p>
With this change, we are free to add new element types. To handle
volume cells in a face-based system, we define an element type
<tt>NFACE_n</tt>, which indicates the element set is defined by number
of faces, and the face elements.
<pre>
   Type = NFACE_n
   Element = nfaces,face1,face2,...
</pre>

<p>
This formulation also has the advantage of readily identifying a
face-based system, since you only need to check the element set
type - if it is <tt>NGON_n</tt> or <tt>NFACE_n</tt>, you know it is
face-based. We are also able to add new element types in the future as
the need arises without breaking any code. Finally, this also involves
only changes to the SIDS, not the MLL.

<p>
As an example, consider a grid with a single hexahedral cell (one
6-sided cube with eight vertices) in it.  To describe this in a
face-based manner, the new method would use:
<pre>
   Name = user-specified1 (Elements_t)
      ElementType = NGON_n
      ElementRange (IndexRange_t) = ElemNo1, ElemNo6
      ElementConnectivity (DataArray_t) = 
         4, face1node1, face1node2, face1node3, face1node4
         4, face2node1, face2node2, face2node3, face2node4
         4, face3node1, face3node2, face3node3, face3node4
         4, face4node1, face4node2, face4node3, face4node4
         4, face5node1, face5node2, face5node3, face5node4
         4, face6node1, face6node2, face6node3, face6node4
</pre>
<pre>
   Name = user-specified2 (Elements_t)
   ElementType = NFACE_n
      ElementRange (IndexRange_t) = 1,1
      ElementConnectivity (DataArray_t) = 
         6, ElemNo1, ElemNo2, ElemNo3, ElemNo4, ElemNo5, ElemNo6
</pre>

<p>
<hr size=4 width=75%>
<div class=footer>
<!--#include virtual="../include/footer_small.html" -->
Last updated 18 Jan 2008

</body>
</html>
