<!-- CGNS Steering Committee Minutes -->

<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css">
<link href="minutes.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<title> CGNS Steering Committee Minutes </title>
</head>

<body text="#000000" bgcolor="#FFFFFF" link="#0000EE" vlink="#551A8B" alink="#FF0000">

<a href="#endnav"><img src="../blank.gif" border=0 alt="Skip navigation links"></a>
<small>
<center>
(<a href="../index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Documentation&nbsp;Home&nbsp;Page</b></a>)
(<a href="../charter/index.html"><b>Steering&nbsp;Committee&nbsp;Charter</b></a>)
(<a href="../overview/index.html"><b>Overview&nbsp;and&nbsp;Entry-Level&nbsp;Document</b></a>)
(<a href="../user/index.html"><b>A&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide&nbsp;to&nbsp;CGNS</b></a>)
(<a href="../sids/index.html"><b>Standard&nbsp;Interface&nbsp;Data&nbsp;Structures</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-ADF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap_hdf/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-HDF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../midlevel/index.html"><b>Mid-Level&nbsp;Library</b></a>)
(<a href="../adf/index.html"><b>ADF&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide</b></a>)
(<a href="../cgnstools/index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Tools&nbsp;and&nbsp;Utilities</b></a>)
</center>
</small>
<a name="endnav"></a>

<h1>CGNS Steering Committee</h1>

<h2>Telecon Minutes</h2>

2 August 2006<br>
11:00 AM Eastern Time

<p>
<ol>
<li> The meeting was called to order at 11:05 AM.  There were
     <a href="#attendees">14 attendees</a>, listed below.
<p>
<li> The minutes of the <a href="telecon_may06.html">10 May 2006
     meeting</a> were approved as posted on the web site.
<p>
<li> Steering Committee Membership changes and updates
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> The committee agreed to increase the allowable number of
          Steering Committee members from 20 to 30, in order to encourage
          growth.  Since we typically have 10-15 people attend each
          meeting/telecon, extending the limit was not believed to be a
          problem.
     <li> Subsequently, Ken Alabi from Thaerocomp introduced himself,
          and expressed an interest in joining the Steering Committee.
          Thaerocomp has developed the high-order CFD code AEROFLO, which
          uses CGNS.  The committee approved the Thaerocomp membership.
     <li> <u>Towne will update the <a href="../charter/index.html">Steering
          Committee Charter</a> to raise the
          limit of members to 30, and to add Thaerocomp.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Status of previous action items:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Wedan and Rumsey will write documentation for
          <a href="../sids/build.html#Rind">SIDS</a> and
          <a href="../midlevel/location.html#rind">MLL</a>
          as appropriate on Rind-for-unstructured and send to Norris
          and Towne.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> done and posted
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan to write up documentation on
          <a href="../midlevel/auxiliary.html#free"><tt>cg_free</tt>
          (in MLL)</a>.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> done and posted
          </ol>
     <li> Alonso will forward to Rumsey some preliminary ideas on
          levels of compliance for vendors, related to problems he
          has encountered.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> not done yet - <u>action item carries</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Towne will e-mail AIAA again to check on the status of the
          Recommended Practice.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> not done yet - <u>action item carries</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser will send parallel version of CGNS with HDF-5 to
          Alonso, van der Weide, Poinot, and Wedan to try out.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> not done yet - <u>action item carries</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey will schedule a small Telecon the week of May 22 for
          the tutors and panelists, in case there are any issues that
          come up that need to be discussed.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> done
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan and Rumsey will initiate a new proposal for extension,
          perhaps based on Sayre's existing proposal but also including
          structured grids, to try to deal with the need for writing
          data to smaller and/or possibly lower-order regions.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> not done yet - <u>action item carries</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan will look at Poinot's string definition header file and
          determine the best course of action.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> not done yet - <u>action item carries</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan will look into the partial write problem (found by
          Allmaras), and Rumsey will contact its authors (at Intelligent
          Light) to ask about it.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> no response yet from IL, problem not fixed yet - <u>first
               part of action item carries</u>
          </ol>
     <li> Committee members should send comments (to Rumsey) on 4 latest
          Proposals for Extension by May 31.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> done (5 responses) - <a href="#extensions">further discussion
               during this telecon</a>
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey will e-mail the participants interested in the issue
          of Allmaras' face-based storage method (Fisher, Poinot, Hann,
          Weber) and solicit their feedback again.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> done, but no response - <a href="#Allmaras">further
               discussion during this telecon</a>
          </ol>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Summary of San Francisco AIAA meeting
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> The CGNS events went extremely well.  Rumsey earlier sent a
          <a href="#AIAA_summary">summary</a> to Steering Committee members
     <li> Rumsey has made some minor changes to the
          www.cgns.org website
          to try to initiate some of the recommendations from the SF meeting:
          (1) a little more detail is now given on the Proposed Extension
          process, (2) the example files for testing have been better
          organized, and (3) an FAQ page has been started.  It would be nice
          to somehow develop a more complete test suite of examples, but we
          will probably need more time and/or volunteers to help accomplish
          this.
     <li> The possibility of developing the Tutorial session into an
          AIAA short course was discussed.  AIAA has said that if we are
          interested, they can do market research and help promote it.
          Hauser and Wedan (offline) said that they would be willing to serve
          as instructors. Rumsey was not sure, but may be able to help also.
          <u>Rumsey and Hauser will follow up with AIAA about the possibility of
          developing an AIAA short course.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Open items (see <a href="#item15">number 15 below</a>):
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> No discussion
     </ol>
<p>
<li> ISO/STEP
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Nothing new to report.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Documentation
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> An earlier issue regarding the fact that the number of
          cells in <tt>Zone_t</tt> is supposed to be the number of
          highest-order elements has not yet been fully resolved.  We
          need to look at the documentation and make sure it is clear
          on this issue. <u>Hann will look at the documentation and
          recommend changes to make it more explicit on the fact that
          the number of cells in <tt>Zone_t</tt> should be the number of
          highest order elements.</u>
     <li> Official documentation has been updated:  Rind for unstructured,
          <a href="../midlevel/auxiliary.html#free"><tt>cg_free</tt></a>,
          <a href="../sids/cnct.html#GridConnectivity">zone connectivity</a>
          donor info now optional, clarifying sentence under
          <a href="../sids/gridflow.html#Elements"><tt>ElementRange</tt></a>
          to clarify global numbering system
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Software
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Issue of incorrect behavior of <tt>_partial_write</tt>
          routines was discussed.  For example, when writing in
          <tt>MODE_MODIFY</tt> mode, one might write a partial write
          from 1 &minus; <i>N</i>/2, but then writing a second partial
          write from <i>N</i>/2+1 &minus; <i>N</i> will destroy the previously
          written portion.  No one can offer a good reason for this
          behavior, so it is believed to be a bug.  The action item to
          fix this already exists.
     <li> A minor fix for cgnstools is needed for IRIX64 (Montreuil).
          Offline, <u>Wedan agreed to make the fix for cgnstools for
          IRIX64.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> HDF-5
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> In an earlier e-mail from Koziol (NCSA), he said that the
          "external links" feature hasn't been checked into HDF5 source
          code repository yet.  It may be there in the next alpha
          release, but they are not certain yet.  Then recently, Poinot
          found that in <i>CGNS/hdf5-1.8.0-alpha4</i>, the HDF5 web
          site refers to external links (these are our node links) as a
          possible release. Offline, <u>Poinot said he will test this
          HDF5 external link capability.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="extensions"></a>
<li> Extensions
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> A discussion was held on the 4 new proposals for extension:
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Averaging Interfaces - (Magnan)
          <li> Face Center Connectivity - (deVito)
          <li> Multiple zone connectivities for time-dependent - (Rumsey)
          <li> Fluid-structure interaction with deformable boundaries -
               (Einstein) 
          </ol>
     <li> Earlier e-mail responses (only 5 committee members responded)
          were OK with the first three, but the last one generated some
          concern.  In subsequent e-mail exchanges, it appears that (iv)
          could be accomplished in a different way, with little or no changes
          to the SIDS. Therefore, proposal (iv) will be tabled.
     <li> During discussions, several members expressed concerns
          about (i) Averaging Interfaces, because it appears to be too
          specialized, without broad enough appeal.  For example, some of the
          members who do rotor-stator applications do things in a different
          manner than the proposal, and accepting this proposal would mean
          trying to impose it on those who already use different methods.
          Therefore, it was decided to table this proposal for the time
          being, until a compromise or other agreement can be reached, with
          the recommendation that anyone needing the proposed method handle
          it through UserDefined for now.
     <li> Proposals (ii) and (iii) were accepted.
     <li> <a name="Allmaras"></a>Regarding Allmaras' face-based storage method for SIDS,
          comments have still not been received yet, other than a note from
          Poirier regarding the rationale for only allowing cell-based
          storage.  <u>Allmaras will head up a task force to try to finally
          resolve the issue of the face-based storage method.  Members
          are: Allmaras, Fisher, Poinot, Hann, Weber, Feldman, Rumsey, Wedan,
          Imaly.  They will hold a mini-telecon in early-September.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Other issues:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Next Steering Committee telecon will be held in late September
          or early October.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Meeting was adjourned at 12:10 PM.
<p>
<li> Summary of <b><u>action items</u></b>:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Towne will update the Steering Committee Charter to raise the
          limit of members to 30, and to add Thaerocomp.
     <li> Alonso will forward to Rumsey some preliminary ideas on levels
          of compliance for vendors, related to problems he has encountered.
     <li> Towne will e-mail AIAA again to check on the status of the
          Recommended Practice.
     <li> Hauser will send parallel version of CGNS with HDF-5 to
          Alonso, van der Weide, Poinot, and Wedan to try out.
     <li> Wedan and Rumsey will initiate a new proposal for extension,
          perhaps based on Sayre's existing proposal but also including
          structured grids, to try to deal with the need for writing data to
          smaller and/or possibly lower-order regions.
     <li> Wedan will look at Poinot's string definition header file and
          determine the best course of action.
     <li> Wedan will look into the partial write problem (found by
          Allmaras).
     <li> Rumsey and Hauser will follow up with AIAA about the
          possibility of developing an AIAA short course.
     <li> Hann will look at the documentation and recommend changes
          to make it more explicit on the fact that the number of cells in
          <tt>Zone_t</tt> should be the number of highest order elements.
     <li> Wedan will make the fix recommended by Montreuil in cgnstools
          for IRIX64.
     <li> Poinot will test the HDF5 external link capability.
     <li> Allmaras will head up a task force to resolve the issue of the
          face-based storage method.  Members are: Allmaras, Fisher, Poinot,
          Hann, Weber, Feldman, Rumsey, Wedan, Imaly.  They will hold a
          mini-telecon in early-September.
     </ol>
<p>
<a name="item15"></a>
<li> Summary of <b><u>open items</u></b> from prior meetings (these are
     different from action items, in that they are open or unresolved
     issues that we want to keep track of, but there are no specific
     actions required of anyone at this point in time):
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Keep track of/resolve <a href="#HDF5_todo">HDF-5 "to-do" list</a>.
     <li> Keep track of progress with ISO/STEP.
     <li> Need for official certification process (test for compliance)
     <li> Need to add Karman's additional <tt>PYRA</tt> element type to
          allowed list (in software and in SIDS)
     <li> Need to upgrade/update <a href="../user/index.html">User's
          Guide</a> as appropriate (such as additional specific examples)
     </ol>
</ol>

<a name="attendees"></a>
<h2>Attendees</h2>

<table cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0>
<tr valign=baseline><td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Ankur Agarwal<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Fluent
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Ken Alabi<td>
   <td>Thaerocomp
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Steven Allmaras<td>
   <td>Boeing Commercial
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>John Chawner<td>
   <td>Pointwise
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Dan Dominic<td>
   <td>Boeing - IDS/PW
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Steve Feldman<td>
   <td>CD-ADAPCO
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Mark Fisher<td>
   <td>Boeing - IDS
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Richard Hann<td>
   <td>ANSYS/CFX 
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Thomas Hauser<td>
   <td>Utah State University
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Scott Imlay<td>
   <td>Tecplot
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Greg Power<td>
   <td>USAF/AEDC
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Rumsey<td>
   <td>NASA Langley
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Kurt Weber<td>
   <td>Rolls Royce / Allison
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Edwin van der Weide<td>
   <td>Stanford University
</table>

<a name="HDF5_todo"></a>
<h2>Tentative to-do list in association with HDF-5 switchover</h2>

<ul>
<li> Complete and test parallel implementation
<li> Complete and test API capability to automatically detect and switch
     between ADF and HDF-5 (transparent to user?)
<li> Assess/minimize impact on software vendors using CGNS
<li> Make changes recommended by HDF-5 to improve usability with HDF-5
     (e.g., character strings as opposed to character arrays)
<li> Assess compression capability of HDF-5
<li> CGNS configure scripts will need to be modified to check for
     availability of appropriate HDF-5 libraries.
<li> Possibly add flag-based options when opening CGNS files.  For
     example: "follow links" vs. "don't follow links"; "use ADF" vs. "use
     HDF-5"; "translate file automatically" vs. "leave the file as-is";
     "compress" vs. "don't compress".
<li> Look into eliminating need for ID's from MLL
<li> Resolve "link-of-links" problem: will require HDF-5 fix by NCSA
     (beta implementation of "external links" is in the works -
     likely complete in early 2006?)
</ul>

<a name="AIAA_summary"></a>
<h2>Summary of CGNS activities at AIAA's meeting in San Francisco, June 2006</h2>

<p>
As all of you know, the CGNS Steering Committee held two big activities
at the San Francisco meeting.

<p>
The first was a Panel Discussion: "CGNS Practical Applications in
CFD". Presentations were made by Richard Hann (ANSYS-CFX), Foluso
Ladeinde (Thaerocomp), Mark Fisher (Boeing), and Marc Poinot (ONERA).
Marc also presented slides from Eurocopter, whose representative could
not be present.  Slides from Snecma unfortunately did not make it in
time for the presentation.  There were between 10-20 attendees present
at each of the talks.  The focus of the Panel discussion was on uses and
needs for CGNS in industry.  There were very interesting discussions.

<p>
It seems clear that CGNS is beginning to fill a need in industry
as a standard CFD data exchange mechanism.  It is particularly en
route to becoming a de facto standard at many companies in Europe,
and it is often specified as the standard for data transfer between
different departments or business partners.  The fact that CGNS is a
vendor-independent standard is one of its attractive features.
 
<p>
Some of the needs mentioned were:
<ol>
<li> better, more complete support of CGNS from third-party vendors
<li> more additions to the pool of examples (CGNS files, codes, templates)
    (particularly unstructured)
<li> high order overset BC support
<li> better (simpler? more formal?) process for adopting new proposals
<li> method for enforcing/ensuring compliance
<li> ease of use & implementation (need for simpler subset standard?)
</ol>
 
<p>
There was particularly a lot of discussion on this latter point.  The
fact that CGNS has so many options makes it difficult for vendors to
fully support it, and also makes many people reluctant to start using
it.  Having a simpler "subset standard" or "data transfer standard"
might make things a lot easier.  By the end of the discussion, however,
many seemed to agree that although subset standards may be a good idea,
allowing flexibility is also an asset. It may be better to leave it up
to each user to decide how (specifically) they want to transfer data
with their partners. Perhaps "subset standards" may eventually emerge
naturally. It was also brought up that, over time, the vendors seem to
be slowly improving their capability for reading different possible CGNS
options.

<p>
I shall make a note to try to address the above needs in future
meetings.  We would obviously like to focus some energy toward solving
them.

<p>
The second activity was a tutorial session, divided into 5 separate
talks:  "Introduction, overview, and basic usage", "Usage for structured
grids", "Usage for unstructured grids", "HDF5 usage and parallel
implementation", and "Python and in-memory CGNS trees". There were
over 30 attendees at the beginning of this evening session.
<a href="../index.html#slides:tutorial_jun06">These presentations</a>
have been placed on the CGNS website.

<p>
Another important development has arisen as a direct result of this
tutorial session:

<p>
The AIAA has approached us, and asked us to think about the possibility
of putting together a two-day short course following the same outline
as the tutorial, but with a lot more detail (including the development
of a database in real time).  This short course could be given both at
AIAA conferences as well as at on-site locations. Furthermore, the AIAA
Board of Directors voted to make electronic versions of the standards
library available free of charge to members. Their goal is to recover
lost revenues by offering the short course.
 
<p>
Finally, I want to extend a very sincere "thank you" to the Panelists
and to the Tutors who helped make the San Francisco events possible:
<ol>
<li> Richard Hann, ANSYS-CFX
<li> Foluso Ladeinde, Thaerocomp
<li> Marc Poinot, ONERA
<li> Mark Fisher, Boeing
<li> Bruce Wedan, ANSYS-ICEM CFD
<li> Edwin van der Weide, Stanford
<li> Thomas Hauser, Utah State
</ol>

<p>
Chris

<p>
<hr size=4 width=75%>
<div class=footer>
<!--#include virtual="../include/footer_small.html" -->
Last updated 8 Aug 2006

</body>
</html>
