<!-- CGNS Steering Committee Minutes -->

<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css">
<link href="minutes.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<title> CGNS Steering Committee Minutes </title>
</head>

<body text="#000000" bgcolor="#FFFFFF" link="#0000EE" vlink="#551A8B" alink="#FF0000">

<a href="#endnav"><img src="../blank.gif" border=0 alt="Skip navigation links"></a>
<small>
<center>
(<a href="../index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Documentation&nbsp;Home&nbsp;Page</b></a>)
(<a href="../charter/index.html"><b>Steering&nbsp;Committee&nbsp;Charter</b></a>)
(<a href="../overview/index.html"><b>Overview&nbsp;and&nbsp;Entry-Level&nbsp;Document</b></a>)
(<a href="../user/index.html"><b>A&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide&nbsp;to&nbsp;CGNS</b></a>)
(<a href="../sids/index.html"><b>Standard&nbsp;Interface&nbsp;Data&nbsp;Structures</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-ADF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../filemap_hdf/index.html"><b>SIDS-to-HDF&nbsp;File&nbsp;Mapping&nbsp;Manual</b></a>)
(<a href="../midlevel/index.html"><b>Mid-Level&nbsp;Library</b></a>)
(<a href="../adf/index.html"><b>ADF&nbsp;User's&nbsp;Guide</b></a>)
(<a href="../cgnstools/index.html"><b>CGNS&nbsp;Tools&nbsp;and&nbsp;Utilities</b></a>)
</center>
</small>
<a name="endnav"></a>

<h1>CGNS Steering Committee</h1>

<h2>Telecon Minutes</h2>

20 May 2009

<p>
<ol>
<li> The telecon was called to order at 11:05 AM eastern time. There were
     <a href="#attendees">10 attendees</a>, listed below.
<p>
<li> The minutes of the <a href="telecon_apr09.html">01 April 2009
     telecon</a> were approved as posted on the web site.
<p>
<li> Committee membership issues
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Stanford University (represented by Juan Alonso) was voted
          onto the steering committee.
     <li> SimCom Inc (Bruce Wedan) will likely join soon.
     </ol>
<p>
<li> EUCASS meeting in France
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Poinot, Hauser, and Rumsey will run an all-day special event
          at the EUCASS meeting in early July 2009 in Versailles,
          France.  The all-day event will consist of a tutorial session,
          hands-on workstation demos, industrial presentations, and
          a meeting. Poinot has confirmed two speakers: from Snecma
          and ONERA (applied department).  It is also possible a
          representative from CD-ADAPCO may be available to speak.
     <li> Hauser also plans an open CGNS meeting, beginning around 6:10
          pm Paris time. <u>Poinot to look into possibility of arranging
          for Telecon capability at the EUCASS meeting.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Status of CGNS Version 3.0
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> The 3.0 package has been evaluated by Poinot.  Some issues
          have been discussed and fixed.
     <li> Biggest discussion focused on new use of cmake (rather
          than configure scripts). Bottom line: configure needs to
          be maintained regularly, and is difficult particularly for
          Windows.  Cmake is a more universal tool, although there
          is some concern that it may cause problems for some users.
          Decision was made to have cmake the new default for V3, but
          configure will be kept in bundle for now (unsupported) in case
          users need it.  Once people start using V3, we can see if
          problems arise regarding cmake.
     <li> <u>Hauser and his student (Kyle) to post Version 3 BETA to
          SourceForge and announce its release to CGNSTalk, including
          its major changes compared to Version 2.5.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Charlie Towne retirement
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Tony Iannetti at NASA Glenn will be taking over Charlie's job
          of maintaining documentation.
     <li> Rumsey is taking over as administrator of CGNSTalk.
     <li> <u>Towne to email "how-to" document regarding CGNS documentation
          to Hauser and Rumsey, so that multiple members have it.</u>
     <li> <u>Rumsey to email Charlie's "how-to" document regarding CGNSTalk
          administration to Hauser, so that multiple members have it.</u>
     <li> <u>Rumsey to create a "how-to" document regarding the website on
          SourceForge, and email it to Hauser, so that multiple members
          have it.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Other issues
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Hauser brought up issue of bug tracking.  Currently we rely
          on CGNSTalk and telecon action-items to keep track of these.
          But with more developers coming on-board, we perhaps need to
          be more organized about it.  SourceForge has method available
          to assign bug fixes and keep track of them. <u>Hauser and
          his student (Kyle) to look into SourceForge bug tracking
          capability.</u>
     <li> SourceForge also apparently has many testing platforms
          available. <u>Hauser and his student (Kyle) to look into
          SourceForge testing platforms.</u>
     <li> Hauser discussed the issue of software maintenance.  This
          is a necessary evil, and takes a lot of time, particularly
          testing and documentation.  Typically universities are not
          the most appropriate place to do software maintenance, but
          rather research.  Intelligent Light (Steve Legensky and Earl
          Duque) had previously communicated with Hauser and Rumsey
          about the possibility of forming some sort of consortium to
          help fund this kind of activity. <u>Duque, Rumsey, and Hauser
          to continue to look into the consortium idea for CGNS.</u>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Status of previous action items
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Poinot to organize the industrial presentations for EUCASS. 
          <ol type=i>
          <li> In process. Will (necessarily) be done by July 7, the
               date of the presentations, so action item removed.
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey to contact Michael (Boeing) regarding the status of
          the CGNS-for-DPW effort, as well as to try to obtain tools
          for posting on the CGNS website.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> The tools are not ready yet. Rumsey to obtain and post
               Boeing's CGNS translation tools (from Michal) when they
               are ready.
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey to contact Benek to see whether CGNS can play a part of
          the SBLI-challenge workshop.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done. The SBLI workshop is not providing grids, so it is
               not known yet how CGNS can play a part.
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser to make a proposal regarding handling index ordering in
          V3.0 and will hold a special mini-telecon in mid-April to try
          to finalize how to handle it.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done. Poinot to test the indexing ordering in V3.0.
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser will oversee completion of cgns.org domain
          transfer. Hauser to announce to CGNSTalk that CGNS.org is back
          up and running as soon as the domain transfer is successfully
          concluded.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done. <a href="http://www.cgns.org">www.cgns.org</a>
               finally up and running again.
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser to investigate and fix bugs noted by Magnan (CGNSTalk
          04 Feb 2009) regarding declaration of <tt>cg_model_read</tt>,
          and by Edwards (CGNSTalk 27 March 2009) regarding
          <tt>ADF_Read_Block_Data</tt>.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Fixed in V3.0. Wedan to check if Magnan (CGNSTalk 04 Feb
               2009) and Edwards (CGNSTalk 27 March 2009) bugs have been
               fixed in V2.5 (CVS version).
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser &amp; Wedan to complete and release V3.0.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Hauser to do this, probably later this week.
          </ol>
     <li> Poinot to work with Power and others to bring Rigid Motion
          Improvement proposal to completion, including specific
          examples.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet.  Action carries.
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser will add HDF-5 parallel code to SourceForge and will
          let users know when it is available.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet.  Action carries.
          </ol>
     <li> Duque and Hauser to continue to develop proposal for handling
          sprays of unconnected points.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet.  Action carries.
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan to investigate issue of MLL deleting the entire node
          even though its new dimensions are the same.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet.  Action carries.
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan to look into issue brought up by Miller (10/19/07) to
          write info one element at a time to save memory.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> This is related to next action item.  See (m).
          </ol>
     <li> Wedan to implement patch sent to him by Bussoletti to fix
          excessive memory usage by MLL.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Wedan discussed this at length. The main problem is the
               <tt>MIXED</tt> and <tt>NGON_n</tt> element type.  For
               these, you must have everything in memory because you
               do not automatically know the offsets.  His plan is to
               fix everything else (via Bussoletti's fix), and treat
               mixed as a special case.  This work also needs to be
               coordinated with the parallel work of Hauser. Wedan to
               complete fixes related to excessive memory usage for
               partial writes.
          </ol>
     <li> Rumsey will contact Alonso to see if he is interested in
          rejoining the CGNS steering committee.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Done. Stanford has been added.
          </ol>
     <li> Power or Michal will provide some high-level routines for
          reading/writing CGNS that may be useful, for inclusion on the
          website.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> This action is the same as item (b) above.
          </ol>
     <li> Hauser to proceed with fix for both the "long" vs "int" issue
          as well as the problem with the 64-bit <tt>cg_goto_f</tt>.
          <ol type=i>
          <li> Not done yet. Action carries.
          </ol>
     </ol>
<p>
<li> Meeting was adjourned at 12:15 PM Eastern. Next Telecon may be held
     during EUCASS.  If not, it will probably be set up sometime later
     in July.
<p>
<li> Summary of <b><u>action items</u></b>:
     <p>
     <ol type="a">
     <li> Poinot to look into possibility of arranging for Telecon
          capability at the EUCASS meeting.
     <li> Hauser and his student (Kyle) to post Version 3 BETA to
          SourceForge and announce its release to CGNSTalk, including
          its major changes compared to Version 2.5.
     <li> Towne to email "how-to" document regarding CGNS documentation
          to Hauser and Rumsey, so that multiple members have it.
     <li> Rumsey to email Charlie's "how-to" document regarding CGNSTalk
          administration to Hauser, so that multiple members have it.
     <li> Rumsey to create a "how-to" document regarding the website on
          SourceForge, and email it to Hauser, so that multiple members
          have it.
     <li> Hauser and his student (Kyle) to look into SourceForge bug
          tracking capability.
     <li> Hauser and his student (Kyle) to look into SourceForge testing
          platforms.
     <li> Duque, Rumsey, and Hauser to continue to look into the
          consortium idea for CGNS.
     <li> Rumsey to obtain and post Boeing's CGNS translation tools
          (from Michal) when they are ready.
     <li> Poinot to test the indexing ordering in V3.0.
     <li> Wedan to check if Magnan (CGNSTalk 04 Feb 2009) and Edwards
          (CGNSTalk 27 March 2009) bugs have been fixed in V2.5 (CVS
          version).
     <li> Poinot to work with Power and others to bring Rigid Motion
          Improvement proposal to completion, including specific
          examples.
     <li> Hauser will add HDF-5 parallel code to SourceForge and will
          let users know when it is available.
     <li> Duque and Hauser to continue to develop proposal for handling
          sprays of unconnected points.
     <li> Wedan to investigate issue of MLL deleting the entire node
          even though its new dimensions are the same.
     <li> Wedan to complete fixes related to excessive memory usage for
          partial writes.
     <li> Hauser to proceed with fix for both the "long" vs "int" issue
          as well as the problem with the 64-bit <tt>cg_goto_f</tt>.
     </ol>
</ol>

<a name="attendees"></a>
<h2>Attendees</h2>

<table cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2 border=0>
<tr valign=baseline><td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>Richard Hann<td><tt>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</tt>
   <td>ANSYS-CFX
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Thomas Hauser<td>
   <td>Utah State
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Tony Iannetti<td>
   <td>NASA Glenn
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Jim Jiao<td>
   <td>Stony Brook University
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Prafanch Kambrath<td>
   <td>Boeing Bangalor
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Simon Pereira<td>
   <td>ANSYS / ICEM CFD
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Marc Poinot<td>
   <td>ONERA
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Chris Rumsey<td>
   <td>NASA Langley
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Charlie Towne<td>
   <td>NASA Glenn
<tr valign=baseline><td>
   <td>Bruce Wedan<td>
   <td>SimCosm Inc.
</table>

<p>
<hr size=4 width=75%>
<div class=footer>
<!--#include virtual="../include/footer_small.html" -->
Last updated 21 May 2009

</body>
</html>
